

34. Eur J Neurosci. 2005 Jun;21(12):3240-50.

Immunoautoradiographic analysis of NMDA receptor subunits and associated
postsynaptic density proteins in the brain of dyskinetic MPTP-treated common
marmosets.

Hurley MJ(1), Jackson MJ, Smith LA, Rose S, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Diseases Research Group, Pharmaceutical Sciences Division,
School of Health and Life Sciences, King's College, London, SE1 1UL, UK.
michael.j.hurley@kcl.ac.uk

l-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine methyl ester (l-DOPA)-induced dyskinesia in
Parkinson's disease may result from aberrant glutamatergic stimulation of the
striatum due to synaptic plasticity in the motor cortex or striatum as a
consequence of adaptation of striatal output pathways. This might result from
changes in NMDA receptor subunit or NMDA receptor associated postsynaptic density
(PSD) scaffold protein expression. Using immunoautoradiography the expression
levels of NR1 and NR2B subunits of the NMDA receptor and the postsynaptic density
scaffold proteins, PSD-95, PSD-93, and neurofilament light (NFL) were examined in
normal common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) and
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-lesioned animals that
exhibited high or low levels of l-DOPA-induced dyskinesia. Brains from
MPTP-lesioned animals that were not primed for l-DOPA-induced dyskinesia were not
included in this study. No alterations in the NR1 NMDA receptor subunit were
observed. The NR2B NMDA receptor subunit was increased in caudal caudate nucleus 
and putamen, hippocampus, cingulate motor area (CMA), supplementary motor area
(SMA) and dorsal primary motor cortex (dMI) of highly dyskinetic MPTP-lesioned
marmosets, but not in animals with low levels of dyskinesia. PSD-93 was decreased
in the globus pallidus of marmosets with high and low levels of dyskinesia and
increased in the CMA, SMA and dMI of highly dyskinetic marmosets. PSD-95 was
increased in the SMA of highly dyskinetic marmosets, but not in animals with low 
dyskinesia. NFL expression was elevated in the SMA and dorsal and ventral MI of
highly dyskinetic marmosets. These results suggest that l-DOPA treatment of
MPTP-lesioned marmosets can affect glutamatergic systems and indicate that
altered NMDA receptor function may relate to dyskinesia.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2005.04169.x 
PMID: 16026462  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

