

7. J Neural Transm (Vienna). 2020 Oct;127(10):1343-1358. doi:
10.1007/s00702-020-02247-2. Epub 2020 Aug 29.

The MPTP-lesioned marmoset model of Parkinson's disease: proposed efficacy
thresholds that may potentially predict successful clinical trial results.

Beaudry F(1), Huot P(2)(3)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Groupe de Recherche en Pharmacologie Animal du Québec, Département de
Biomédecine Vétérinaire, Faculté de Médecine Vétérinaire, Université de Montréal,
Saint-Hyacinthe, QC, Canada.
(2)Neurodegenerative Disease Group, Montreal Neurological Institute, 3801
University St, Montreal, QC, H3A 2B4, Canada. philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.
(3)Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, McGill University, Montreal, QC,
Canada. philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.
(4)Movement Disorder Clinic, Division of Neurology, Department of Neurosciences, 
McGill University Health Centre, Montreal, QC, Canada. philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.

The 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-lesioned common marmoset 
has been used extensively to model Parkinson's disease,
L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA)-induced dyskinesia and, more recently,
dopaminergic psychosis. Whereas several experimental drugs have been tested in
this primate, many of which subsequently underwent clinical trials, efficacy
thresholds in the marmoset that would predict efficacy in the clinic are lacking.
Here, we aimed to determine such efficacy end points that would be indicative of 
likely efficacy in clinical studies. To do so, we used the evidence-based
medicine reviews published by the International Parkinson and Movement Disorder
Society (IPMDS) to select drugs that were rated as clinically efficacious, likely
efficacious or not efficacious for the treatment of parkinsonism, dyskinesia and 
psychosis. We then reviewed the literature in the MPTP-lesioned marmoset and
identified articles reporting the effects of drugs that were included in the
IPMDS recommendations, following which we estimated efficacy thresholds in the
marmoset that would predict efficacy at the clinical level. We propose that, when
drugs are administered as monotherapy, ≥ 50% reduction of global parkinsonism may
be necessary to predict the possibility of clinical efficacy. As adjunct to a low
dose of L-DOPA, we propose that an additional reduction of global
parkinsonism ≥ 25% might predict clinical efficacy. As adjunct to an optimal dose
of L-DOPA, we propose that additional anti-parkinsonian benefit ≥ 20%, with
global parkinsonism as the end point, might predict clinical efficacy. For the
treatment of dyskinesia, we suggest that the predictability threshold be set
at ≥ 25% reduction of peak dose dyskinesia, while we believe that this threshold 
should be > 50% reduction of peak dose psychosis-like behaviours for
psychosis-related end points. This article represents the first step in
determining what efficacy might be necessary to achieve in pre-clinical studies
in the MPTP-lesioned marmoset prior to confidently advancing drugs to clinical
trials. We hope that it will help in the drug discovery and development process, 
notably by avoiding exposing patients to drugs that have little probability of
clinical efficacy based upon pre-clinical experiments.

DOI: 10.1007/s00702-020-02247-2 
PMID: 32860561  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

