
1. Cureus. 2022 May 9;14(5):e24856. doi: 10.7759/cureus.24856. eCollection 2022 May.

Collagen Structure, Synthesis, and Its Applications: A Systematic Review.

Shenoy M(1), Abdul NS(1), Qamar Z(2), Bahri BMA(3), Al Ghalayini KZK(4), Kakti
A(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oral Pathology, College of Dentistry, Riyadh Elm University,
Riyadh, SAU.
(2)Department of Oral Biology, College of Dentistry, Riyadh Elm University,
Riyadh, SAU.
(3)Department of Restorative Dentistry, Consultant Ministry of Health, Riyadh,
SAU.
(4)Department of Endodontics, Consultant Ministry of Health, Riyadh, SAU.
(5)Department of Pediatric Dentistry, College of Dentistry, Riyadh Elm
University, Riyadh, SAU.

Resorbable collagen has been utilized to treat wounds, close graft, and tooth
extraction sites, and enhance recovery. Collagen-based membranes are also used as
barriers in periodontal and implant therapy to limit epithelial migration and
allow cells with the regenerative capacity to fill the problem area. This
systematic review was carried out to analyze the studies focusing on collagen
structure, synthesis, and its applications. A detailed and extensive search was
performed with the help of the keywords "collagen structure", "collagen
synthesis" and "collagen applications". There was extensive literature search in 
reliable and authentic databases like PubMed, Scopus, Web of Sciences, Ovidsp,
and Cochrane library to obtain papers focusing on collagen structure, synthesis, 
and applications. During the systematic review, data were obtained concerning the
following parameters. Type of study, nature of aim of the study, size of the
sample in the study, gender and age of the subjects included in the study,
prevalence of skin diseases where collagen was used for treatment, dose of
collagen used, form in which collagen was used, the origin of collagen used,
analysis of different variables, structure, and synthesis of collagen. Twenty-two
studies were included in this systematic review. The studies discussed the
structure, synthesis, and applications of collagen in treatment. In studies
focusing on the application of collagen supplements, most of the study subjects
were females (68.3%). The study subjects included both healthy and unhealthy
subjects. The study subjects were divided into two categories. One category was
the intervention group, while another group was the placebo group. Collagen was
administered in hydrolysate form (90%) in some studies, bovine form (2.3%), and
porcine form (3.4%) in other studies. Collagen supplementation was found to
provide better results in both healthy and unhealthy effects in improving the
health of skin, cornea, bone, periodontium, face, etc. It can be concluded that
collagen is an integral part of the body. The application of collagen supplements
can be pretty effective in maintaining the proper health of several important
structures of the body like skin, face, cornea, nails, periodontium, etc. Thus, a
detailed study of the molecular structure of collagen and genes associated with
each type of collagen is essential for further research and treatment of
collagen-associated disorders.

Copyright © 2022, Shenoy et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.24856 
PMCID: PMC9177216
PMID: 35702467 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.


2. J Cosmet Dermatol. 2022 Feb;21(2):438-443. doi: 10.1111/jocd.14567. Epub 2021 Oct
25.

Myths and media in oral collagen supplementation for the skin, nails, and hair: A
review.

Rustad AM(1), Nickles MA(2), McKenney JE(1), Bilimoria SN(1), Lio PA(3).

Author information: 
(1)Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, Illinois, USA.
(2)University of Illinois College of Medicine, Chicago, Illinois, USA.
(3)Department of Dermatology, Northwestern University, Chicago, Illinois, USA.

BACKGROUND: As a key component of the hair, skin, and nails, there is strong
consumer interest in the dermatologic efficacy of oral collagen supplementation. 
Oral supplementation with collagen peptides has increased in popularity in recent
years.
AIMS: There are relatively few studies investigating the dermatologic effects of 
ingested collagen peptides, many of which are limited by sample size and
variability of results. The question remains whether there is sufficient evidence
to support companies' promises and consumers' goals.
METHODS: In this review, we investigate and compare the claims surrounding
collagen supplementation on Instagram and YouTube, made by collagen companies,
and established in the literature.
RESULTS: Although some studies have demonstrated that collagen supplementation
can enhance skin qualities such as elasticity and hydration, dermatologic claims 
in the media surpass any evidence currently supported by the literature.
CONCLUSIONS: More research is needed to establish knowledge of the effects and
physiologic mechanism of collagen supplementation. Dermatologists should be aware
of the unsubstantiated proclamations of collagen made by companies and in social 
media, as well as what evidence is established thus far, to be equipped to
discuss collagen supplementation with patients.

© 2021 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1111/jocd.14567 
PMID: 34694676  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. Amino Acids. 2022 Apr;54(4):513-528. doi: 10.1007/s00726-021-03056-x. Epub 2021
Aug 3.

Hydroxyproline in animal metabolism, nutrition, and cell signaling.

Hu S(1), He W(1), Wu G(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Animal Science, Texas A&M University, College Station, TX,
77843, USA.
(2)Department of Animal Science, Texas A&M University, College Station, TX,
77843, USA. g-wu@tamu.edu.

trans-4-Hydroxy-L-proline is highly abundant in collagen (accounting for about
one-third of body proteins in humans and other animals). This imino acid (loosely
called amino acid) and its minor analogue trans-3-hydroxy-L-proline in their
ratio of approximately 100:1 are formed from the post-translational hydroxylation
of proteins (primarily collagen and, to a much lesser extent, non-collagen
proteins). Besides their structural and physiological significance in the
connective tissue, both trans-4-hydroxy-L-proline and trans-3-hydroxy-L-proline
can scavenge reactive oxygen species and have both structural and physiological
significance in animals. The formation of trans-4-hydroxy-L-proline residues in
protein kinases B and DYRK1A, eukaryotic elongation factor 2 activity, and
hypoxia-inducible transcription factor plays an important role in regulating
their phosphorylation and catalytic activation as well as cell signaling in
animal cells. These biochemical events contribute to the modulation of cell
metabolism, growth, development, responses to nutritional and physiological
changes (e.g., dietary protein intake and hypoxia), and survival. Milk, meat,
skin hydrolysates, and blood, as well as whole-body collagen degradation provide 
a large amount of trans-4-hydroxy-L-proline. In animals, most (nearly 90%) of the
collagen-derived trans-4-hydroxy-L-proline is catabolized to glycine via the
trans-4-hydroxy-L-proline oxidase pathway, and trans-3-hydroxy-L-proline is
degraded via the trans-3-hydroxy-L-proline dehydratase pathway to ornithine and
glutamate, thereby conserving dietary and endogenously synthesized proline and
arginine. Supplementing trans-4-hydroxy-L-proline or its small peptides to
plant-based diets can alleviate oxidative stress, while increasing collagen
synthesis and accretion in the body. New knowledge of hydroxyproline biochemistry
and nutrition aids in improving the growth, health and well-being of humans and
other animals.

© 2021. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Austria,
part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00726-021-03056-x 
PMID: 34342708  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. Int J Dermatol. 2022 Mar;61(3):e99-e101. doi: 10.1111/ijd.15748. Epub 2021 Jul 1.

Concerning the heterogeneity of the studies included in meta-analyses. Comment
on: "Effects of hydrolyzed collagen supplementation on skin aging: a systematic
review and meta-analysis".

Peres G(1), Ianhez M(2), Polo TCF(3), Abbade LPF(4), Miot HA(4).

Author information: 
(1)Dermatology PG Tutor, Learna/University of South Wales, Cardiff, UK.
(2)Departamento de Medicina Tropical e Dermatologia - UFG, Goiânia, Brazil.
(3)Departamento de Patologia, FMB-Unesp, Botucatu, SP, Brazil.
(4)Departamento de Dermatologia, FMB-Unesp, Botucatu, SP, Brazil.

DOI: 10.1111/ijd.15748 
PMID: 34196407  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. J Biomed Mater Res B Appl Biomater. 2021 Dec;109(12):1986-1999. doi:
10.1002/jbm.b.34881. Epub 2021 May 24.

Collagen-based biomaterials for biomedical applications.

Rezvani Ghomi E(1), Nourbakhsh N(2), Akbari Kenari M(3), Zare M(1), Ramakrishna
S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Nanotechnology and Sustainability, Department of Mechanical
Engineering, National University of Singapore, Singapore, Singapore.
(2)Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine, Department of Medicine, National University
of Singapore, Singapore, Singapore.
(3)Department of Chemistry, Amirkabir University of Technology, Tehran, Iran.

Collagen is an insoluble fibrous protein that composes the extracellular matrix
in animals. Although collagen has been used as a biomaterial since 1881, the
properties and the complex structure of collagen are still extensive study
subjects worldwide. In this article, several topics of importance for
understanding collagen research are reviewed starting from its historical
milestones, followed by the description of the collagen superfamily and its
complex structures, with a focus on type I collagen. Subsequently, some of the
superior properties of collagen-based biomaterials, such as biocompatibility,
biodegradability, mechanical properties, and cell activities, are pinpointed.
These properties make collagen applicable in biomedicine, such as wound healing, 
tissue engineering, surface coating of medical devices, and skin supplementation.
Moreover, some antimicrobial strategies and the general host tissue responses
regarding collagen as a biomaterial are presented. Finally, the current status
and clinical application of the three-dimensional (3D) printing techniques for
the fabrication of collagen-based scaffolds and the reconstruction of the human
heart's constituents, such as capillary structures or even the entire organ, are 
discussed. Besides, an overall outlook for the future of this unique biomaterial 
is provided.

© 2021 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/jbm.b.34881 
PMID: 34028179  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


6. Int J Dermatol. 2021 Dec;60(12):1449-1461. doi: 10.1111/ijd.15518. Epub 2021 Mar 
20.

Effects of hydrolyzed collagen supplementation on skin aging: a systematic review
and meta-analysis.

de Miranda RB(1)(2), Weimer P(3), Rossi RC(2).

Author information: 
(1)UNIFIMES - University Center of Mineiros, Goiás, Brazil.
(2)Graduate Program in Nutrition and Food of the University of Vale do Rio dos
Sinos (UNISINOS), São Leopoldo, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil.
(3)Graduate Program in Pharmaceutical Sciences, Federal University of Rio Grande 
do Sul (UFRGS), Porto Alegre, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil.

Skin aging has become a recurring concern even for younger people, mainly owing
to increased life expectancy. In this context, the use of nutricosmetics as
supplements has increased in recent years. Moreover, numerous scientific studies 
have shown the benefits of hydrolyzed collagen supplementation in improving the
signs of skin aging. The objective of this study was to summarize the evidence on
the effects of hydrolyzed collagen supplementation on human skin through a
systematic review followed by a meta-analysis of clinical trials focusing on the 
process of skin aging. A literature search was conducted in the Medline, Embase, 
Cochrane, LILACS (Latin American and Caribbean Health Sciences Literature), and
Journal of Negative Results in BioMedicine databases. Eligible studies were
randomized, double-blind, and controlled trials that evaluated oral
supplementation with hydrolyzed collagen as an intervention and reported at least
one of the following outcomes: skin wrinkles, hydration, elasticity, and
firmness. After retrieving articles from the databases, 19 studies were selected,
with a total of 1,125 participants aged between 20 and 70 years (95% women). In
the meta-analysis, a grouped analysis of studies showed favorable results of
hydrolyzed collagen supplementation compared with placebo in terms of skin
hydration, elasticity, and wrinkles. The findings of improved hydration and
elasticity were also confirmed in the subgroup meta-analysis. Based on results,
ingestion of hydrolyzed collagen for 90 days is effective in reducing skin aging,
as it reduces wrinkles and improves skin elasticity and hydration.

© 2021 the International Society of Dermatology.

DOI: 10.1111/ijd.15518 
PMID: 33742704  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


7. Int J Mol Sci. 2020 Dec 4;21(23). pii: E9259. doi: 10.3390/ijms21239259.

Copper Dyshomeostasis in Neurodegenerative Diseases-Therapeutic Implications.

Gromadzka G(1), Tarnacka B(2), Flaga A(1), Adamczyk A(3).

Author information: 
(1)Collegium Medicum, Faculty of Medicine, Cardinal Stefan Wyszynski University, 
Wóycickiego 1/3 Street, 01-938 Warsaw, Poland.
(2)Department of Rehabilitation, Eleonora Reicher National Institute of
Geriatrics, Rheumatology and Rehabilitation, Rehabilitation Clinic, Medical
University of Warsaw, Spartańska 1 Street, 02-637 Warsaw, Poland.
(3)Department of Cellular Signalling, Mossakowski Medical Research Centre, Polish
Academy of Sciences, 5 Pawińskiego Street, 02-106 Warsaw, Poland.

Copper is one of the most abundant basic transition metals in the human body. It 
takes part in oxygen metabolism, collagen synthesis, and skin pigmentation,
maintaining the integrity of blood vessels, as well as in iron homeostasis,
antioxidant defense, and neurotransmitter synthesis. It may also be involved in
cell signaling and may participate in modulation of membrane receptor-ligand
interactions, control of kinase and related phosphatase functions, as well as
many cellular pathways. Its role is also important in controlling gene expression
in the nucleus. In the nervous system in particular, copper is involved in
myelination, and by modulating synaptic activity as well as excitotoxic cell
death and signaling cascades induced by neurotrophic factors, copper is important
for various neuronal functions. Current data suggest that both excess copper
levels and copper deficiency can be harmful, and careful homeostatic control is
important. This knowledge opens up an important new area for potential
therapeutic interventions based on copper supplementation or removal in
neurodegenerative diseases including Wilson's disease (WD), Menkes disease (MD), 
Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), and others. However, much
remains to be discovered, in particular, how to regulate copper homeostasis to
prevent neurodegeneration, when to chelate copper, and when to supplement it.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms21239259 
PMCID: PMC7730516
PMID: 33291628  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


8. Oxid Med Cell Longev. 2020 Jun 17;2020:7145656. doi: 10.1155/2020/7145656.
eCollection 2020.

Galactose-Induced Skin Aging: The Role of Oxidative Stress.

Umbayev B(1), Askarova S(1), Almabayeva A(2), Saliev T(3), Masoud AR(4), Bulanin 
D(5).

Author information: 
(1)National Laboratory Astana, Nazarbayev University, Nur-Sultan, Kazakhstan.
(2)Astana Medical University, Nur-Sultan, Kazakhstan.
(3)S.D. Asfendiyarov Kazakh National Medical University, Almaty, Kazakhstan.
(4)Louisiana Tech University, Ruston, Louisiana, USA.
(5)School of Medicine, Nazarbayev University, Nur-Sultan, Kazakhstan.

Skin aging has been associated with a higher dietary intake of carbohydrates,
particularly glucose and galactose. In fact, the carbohydrates are capable of
damaging the skin's vital components through nonenzymatic glycation, the covalent
attachment of sugar to a protein, and subsequent production of advanced glycation
end products (AGEs). This review is focused on the role of D-galactose in the
development of skin aging and its relation to oxidative stress. The interest in
this problem was dictated by recent findings that used in vitro and in vivo
models. The review highlights the recent advances in the underlying molecular
mechanisms of D-galactose-mediated cell senescence and cytotoxicity. We have also
proposed the possible impact of galactosemia on skin aging and its clinical
relevance. The understanding of molecular mechanisms of skin aging mediated by
D-galactose can help dermatologists optimize methods for prevention and treatment
of skin senescence and aging-related skin diseases.

Copyright © 2020 Bauyrzhan Umbayev et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2020/7145656 
PMCID: PMC7317321
PMID: 32655772  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing
interests related to this work.


9. J Cosmet Dermatol. 2020 Nov;19(11):2820-2829. doi: 10.1111/jocd.13435. Epub 2020 
May 21.

Collagen supplementation for skin health: A mechanistic systematic review.

Barati M(1), Jabbari M(2), Navekar R(3), Farahmand F(4), Zeinalian R(5),
Salehi-Sahlabadi A(6), Abbaszadeh N(5), Mokari-Yamchi A(2), Davoodi SH(7).

Author information: 
(1)Student Research Committee, Department of Cellular and Molecular Nutrition,
Faculty of Nutrition and Food Technology, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Department of Community Nutrition, Faculty of Nutrition and Food Technology,
Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(3)Nutrition Research Center, Faculty of Nutrition and Food Sciences, Tabriz
University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, Iran.
(4)Department of Community Nutrition, School of Nutritional Sciences and
Dietetics, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(5)Faculty of Nutrition and Food Sciences, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences,
Tabriz, Iran.
(6)Student Research Committee, Department of Clinical Nutrition and Dietetics,
Faculty of Nutrition and Food Technology, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(7)Cancer Research Center, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences,
Tehran, Iran.

BACKGROUND: Over the last decade, many researchers tried to evaluate the effects 
of collagen supplements on skin aging and surprisingly revealed that the
interventions improved skin aging parameters without any inconsistency.
AIM: This systematic review assesses the literature regarding the effects of
collagen supplements on skin health parameters in healthy and patient subjects,
focusing on mechanisms of action.
METHODS: At the first step of search in the databases, 9057 items were obtained. 
After removal of duplicate items, 6531 publications remained. Further screening
by title and/or abstract resulted in removal of 6500 items. Finally, full texts
of the 31 remained items were assessed for eligibility and 10 publications were
included in this review.
RESULTS: The evidences obtained from these systematic reviews indicated that oral
administration of intact or hydrolyzed collagen improves clinical manifestation
of skin health. Almost all of the included studies reported the beneficial
effects of collagen supplementation, and no inconsistencies have been seen in
this regard between studies.
CONCLUSIONS: In this systematic review, three different mechanisms of action were
clarified for the intervention. Direct effects of collagen peptides on
fibroblasts, M2-like macrophages, and oral tolerance-related mechanisms are the
possible mechanisms for the beneficial effects of collagen supplementation.

© 2020 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1111/jocd.13435 
PMID: 32436266  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


10. J Wound Care. 2019 Oct 2;28(10):683-693. doi: 10.12968/jowc.2019.28.10.683.

Nutrition in wound healing: investigation of the molecular mechanisms, a
narrative review.

Palmieri B(1), Vadalà M(1), Laurino C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dipartimento Chirurgico, Medico, Odontoiatrico e di Scienze Morfologiche con
Interesse Trapiantologico, Oncologico e di Medicina Rigenerativa, Università
degli Studi di Modena e Reggio Emilia, Modena, Italy. Second Opinion Medical
Network.

Comment in
    J Wound Care. 2019 Oct 2;28(10):645.

Nutrition can be outlined in terms of epigenetic signals influencing each of the 
wound healing steps (haemostasis, inflammatory, proliferative and remodelling
phase). Specific nutrients, such as amino acids, minerals, vitamins, natural
compounds and herbal extracts, target DNA-regulating transcription factors,
cytokines, extracellular matrix proteins and glycosaminoglycan, and are
specifically involved in the wound healing process. This review focuses on
experimental in vivo and clinical evidence of dietary supplements administration 
in pressure ulcers. A good nutritional status is, for example, fundamental to the
haemostasis phase of skin wounds. In the inflammatory phase, vitamin A enhances
cytokine release, bromelain and amino acids prevent prolonged inflammatory
events, while vitamin C enhances neutrophil migration and lymphocyte activation. 
In the proliferative phase, vitamin C and Centella asiatica are required for
collagen synthesis. Glucosamine enhances hyaluronic acid production, vitamin A
promotes epithelial cell differentiation, zinc is required for DNA and protein
synthesis and cell division, and Aloe vera supports granulation tissue
generation. Finally, in the remodelling phase, amino acids and proteins play a
key role in wound scar stabilisation.

DOI: 10.12968/jowc.2019.28.10.683 
PMID: 31600106  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


11. J Anim Physiol Anim Nutr (Berl). 2020 Jan;104(1):245-256. doi: 10.1111/jpn.13219.
Epub 2019 Oct 8.

Nutritional applications and beneficial health applications of green tea and
l-theanine in some animal species: A review.

Alagawany M(1), Abd El-Hack ME(1), Saeed M(2), Naveed M(3)(4), Arain MA(5), Arif 
M(6), Tiwari R(7), Khandia R(8), Khurana SK(9), Karthik K(10), Yatoo MI(11),
Munjal A(8), Bhatt P(12), Sharun K(13), Iqbal HMN(14), Sun C(5), Dhama K(15).

Author information: 
(1)Poultry Department, Faculty of Agriculture, Zagazig University, Zagazig,
Egypt.
(2)Department of Animal Nutrition, Cholistan University of Veterinary and Animal 
Sciences Bahawalpur, Pakistan.
(3)Faculty of Pharmacy and Alternative Medicine, Islamia University of
Bahawalpur, Bahawalpur, Pakistan.
(4)Department of Clinical Pharmacy, School of Basic Medicine, and Clinical
Pharmacy, China Pharmaceutical University, Nanjing, Jiangsu Province, China.
(5)College of Animal Science and Technology, NW A&F University, Yangling,
Shaanxi, China.
(6)Department of Animal Sciences, University College of Agriculture, University
of Sargodha, Pakistan.
(7)Department of Veterinary Microbiology and Immunology, College of Veterinary
Sciences, UP Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhayay Pashu Chikitsa Vigyan Vishwavidyalay
Evum Go-Anusandhan Sansthan (DUVASU), Mathura, Uttar Pradesh, India.
(8)Department of Genetics, Barkatullah University, Bhopal, India.
(9)ICAR-Central Institute for Research on Buffaloes, Hisar, Haryana, India.
(10)Central University Laboratory, Tamil Nadu Veterinary and Animal Sciences
University, Chennai, Tamil Nadu, India.
(11)Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology of Kashmir,
Shalimar, Srinagar, Jammu and Kashmir, India.
(12)Teaching Veterinary Clinical Complex, College of Veterinary and Animal
Sciences, Govind Ballabh Pant University of Agriculture and Technology, Pantnagar
(Udham Singh Nagar), Uttarakhand, India.
(13)Division of Surgery, ICAR-Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Uttar
Pradesh, Izatnagar, Bareilly, India.
(14)School of Engineering and Science, Tecnologico de Monterrey, Campus
Monterrey, Monterrey, NL, Mexico.
(15)Division of Pathology, ICAR-Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar, 
Bareilly, Uttar Pradesh, India.

Green tea (Camellia sinensis) is a popular herbal plant with abundant health
benefits, and thus, it has been used as a potent antioxidant for a long time.
Based on the available literature, the diversity and the availability of
multifunctional compounds in green tea offer its noteworthy potential against
many diseases such as liver and heart diseases, inflammatory conditions and
different metabolic syndromes. Owing to its bioactive constituents including
caffeine, amino acids, l-theanine, polyphenols/flavonoids and carbohydrates among
other potent molecules, green tea has many pharmacological and physiological
effects. The effects of green tea include anti-oxidative, anti-inflammatory,
anti-arthritic, anti-stress, hypolipidaemic, hypocholesterolaemic, skin/collagen 
protective, hepatoprotective, anti-diabetic, anti-microbial, anti-infective,
anti-parasitic, anti-cancerous, inhibition of tumorigenesis and angiogenesis,
anti-mutagenic, and memory and bone health-improving activities. Apart from its
utilization in humans, green tea has also played a significant role in livestock 
production such as in dairy, piggery, goatry and poultry industries.
Supplementation of animal feeds with green tea and its products is in line with
the modern concepts of organic livestock production. Hence, incorporating green
tea or green tea by-products into the diet of poultry and other livestock can
enhance the value of the products obtained from these animals. Herein, an effort 
is made to extend the knowledge on the importance and useful applications of
green tea and its important constituents in animal production including poultry. 
This review will be a guideline for researchers and entrepreneurs who want to
explore the utilization of feeds supplemented with green tea and green tea
by-products for the enhancement of livestock production.

© 2019 Blackwell Verlag GmbH.

DOI: 10.1111/jpn.13219 
PMID: 31595607  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


12. J Cosmet Dermatol. 2020 Apr;19(4):910-912. doi: 10.1111/jocd.13096. Epub 2019 Aug
14.

Oral collagen supplementation for skin aging: A fad or the future?

Jhawar N(1), Wang JV(2), Saedi N(2).

Author information: 
(1)Drexel University College of Medicine, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
(2)Department of Dermatology and Cutaneous Biology, Thomas Jefferson University, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

In recent years, oral collagen supplements have become a popular and trendy
treatment in the world of skin health. It has been widely marketed to consumers
for purported benefits in wrinkle reduction, skin-rejuvenation, skin-aging
reversal, and skin plumping. However, there are currently limited data available 
in the literature and much regarding its possible effects on the skin has yet to 
be fully elucidated and understood. Here, we summarize some of the prominent
studies in the literature and offer an evaluation of oral collagen
supplementation for skin health.

© 2019 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1111/jocd.13096 
PMID: 31411379  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


13. Nutrients. 2019 Feb 23;11(2). pii: E474. doi: 10.3390/nu11020474.

A Review of the Role of Green Tea (Camellia sinensis) in Antiphotoaging, Stress
Resistance, Neuroprotection, and Autophagy.

Prasanth MI(1), Sivamaruthi BS(2), Chaiyasut C(3), Tencomnao T(4).

Author information: 
(1)Age-Related Inflammation and Degeneration Research Unit, Department of
Clinical Chemistry, Faculty of Allied Health Sciences, Chulalongkorn University, 
Bangkok 10330, Thailand. prasanth.i@chula.ac.th.
(2)Innovation Center for Holistic Health, Nutraceuticals and Cosmeceuticals,
Faculty of Pharmacy, Chiang Mai University, Chiang Mai 50200, Thailand.
sivasgene@gmail.com.
(3)Innovation Center for Holistic Health, Nutraceuticals and Cosmeceuticals,
Faculty of Pharmacy, Chiang Mai University, Chiang Mai 50200, Thailand.
chaiyavat@gmail.com.
(4)Age-Related Inflammation and Degeneration Research Unit, Department of
Clinical Chemistry, Faculty of Allied Health Sciences, Chulalongkorn University, 
Bangkok 10330, Thailand. tewin.t@chula.ac.th.

Tea is one of the most widely consumed beverages worldwide, and is available in
various forms. Green tea is richer in antioxidants compared to other forms of
tea. Tea is composed of polyphenols, caffeine, minerals, and trace amounts of
vitamins, amino acids, and carbohydrates. The composition of the tea varies
depending on the fermentation process employed to produce it. The phytochemicals 
present in green tea are known to stimulate the central nervous system and
maintain overall health in humans. Skin aging is a complex process mediated by
intrinsic factors such as senescence, along with extrinsic damage induced by
external factors such as chronic exposure to ultraviolet (UV) irradiation-A
process known as photoaging-Which can lead to erythema, edema, sunburn,
hyperplasia, premature aging, and the development of non-melanoma and melanoma
skin cancers. UV can cause skin damage either directly, through absorption of
energy by biomolecules, or indirectly, by increased production of reactive oxygen
species (ROS) and reactive nitrogen species (RNS). Green tea phytochemicals are a
potent source of exogenous antioxidant candidates that could nullify excess
endogenous ROS and RNS inside the body, and thereby diminish the impact of
photoaging. Several in vivo and in vitro studies suggest that green tea
supplementation increases the collagen and elastin fiber content, and suppresses 
collagen degrading enzyme MMP-3 production in the skin, conferring an
anti-wrinkle effect. The precise mechanism behind the anti-photoaging effect of
green tea has not been explored yet. Studies using the worm model have suggested 
that green tea mediated lifespan extension depends on the DAF-16 pathway. Apart
from this, green tea has been reported to have stress resistance and
neuroprotective properties. Its ROS scavenging activity makes it a potent stress 
mediator, as it can also regulate the stress induced by metal ions. It is known
that tea polyphenols can induce the expression of different antioxidant enzymes
and hinder the DNA oxidative damage. Growing evidence suggests that green tea can
also be used as a potential agent to mediate neurodegenerative diseases,
including Alzheimer's disease. EGCG, an abundant catechin in tea, was found to
suppress the neurotoxicity induced by Aβ as it activates glycogen synthase
kinase-3β (GSK-3β), along with inhibiting c-Abl/FE65-the cytoplasmic nonreceptor 
tyrosine kinase which is involved in the development of the nervous system and in
nuclear translocation. Additionally, green tea polyphenols induce autophagy,
thereby revitalizing the overall health of the organism consuming it. Green tea
was able to activate autophagy in HL-60 xenographs by increasing the activity of 
PI3 kinase and BECLIN-1. This manuscript describes the reported anti-photoaging, 
stress resistance, and neuroprotective and autophagy properties of one of the
most widely known functional foods-green tea.

DOI: 10.3390/nu11020474 
PMCID: PMC6412948
PMID: 30813433  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


14. J Drugs Dermatol. 2019 Jan 1;18(1):9-16.

Oral Collagen Supplementation: A Systematic Review of Dermatological Applications

Choi FD, Sung CT, Juhasz ML, Mesinkovsk NA.

Importance: The use of nutraceuticals such as collagen for skincare has been
rising, but regulations are lacking on quality, absorption, and efficacy. To
address this knowledge gap, clinical studies regarding the potential effects of
collagen-based dietary supplements on skin are being completed. Objective: To
review the literature and assess available randomized-controlled trials using
collagen supplementation for treatment efficacy regarding skin quality,
anti-aging benefits, and potential application in medical dermatology. Evidence
Review: A literature search was conducted with PubMed using search criteria
(collagen) AND (supplement OR food OR nutrition). No lower limit on the year of
publication was set. Inclusion criteria were: randomized, placebo-controlled
trials using collagen supplementation in human subjects related to dermatology
and written in English. Findings: Eleven studies with a total of 805 patients
were included for review. Eight studies used collagen hydrolysate, 2.5g/d to
10g/d, for 8 to 24 weeks, for the treatment of pressure ulcers, xerosis, skin
aging, and cellulite. Two studies used collagen tripeptide, 3g/d for 4 to 12
weeks, with notable improvement in skin elasticity and hydration. Lastly, one
study using collagen dipeptide suggested anti-aging efficacy is proportionate to 
collagen dipeptide content. Conclusions and Relevance: Preliminary results are
promising for the short and long-term use of oral collagen supplements for wound 
healing and skin aging. Oral collagen supplements also increase skin elasticity, 
hydration, and dermal collagen density. Collagen supplementation is generally
safe with no reported adverse events. Further studies are needed to elucidate
medical use in skin barrier diseases such as atopic dermatitis and to determine
optimal dosing regimens. J Drugs Dermatol. 2019;18(1):9-16.


PMID: 30681787  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


15. Eur J Dermatol. 2018 Aug 1;28(4):476-481. doi: 10.1684/ejd.2018.3355.

Elastosis perforans serpiginosa: causes and associated disorders.

Montesu MA(1), Onnis G(1), Gunnella S(1), Lissia A(2), Satta R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgical, Microsurgical and Medical Sciences, Dermatology,
University of Sassari, Italy.
(2)Department of Surgical, Microsurgical and Medical Sciences, Pathological
Anatomy, University of Sassari, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Elastosis perforans serpiginosa (EPS) is an uncommon cutaneous
disorder classified under perforating diseases (PD); a group of dermatoses with
transepidermal extrusion of collagen or elastic tissue. Three EPS subtypes have
been reported that differ according to aetiology, associated diseases, and
histopathological features. Herein, we report a systematic review of the
literature, as well as a case of a 41-year-old woman with Wilson disease treated 
with penicillamine (PCM), who developed EPS after 11 years of drug intake.
OBJECTIVES: To analyse and characterise EPS subtypes based on an evaluation of
potential different histological patterns.
MATERIALS & METHODS: A systematic literature search in Pubmed was performed to
identify articles describing EPS.
RESULTS: A peculiar histological pattern was identified in EPS PCM-related
patients, either in affected or unaffected skin samples. Using specific elastic
fibre stains (Verhoeff-van Gieson, Weigert, and Orcein), fibres appeared with an 
irregular surface with thorn-like protrusion, probably due to weaker fibre
cross-links, making them unable to re-expand after contraction along their long
axis. Interestingly, similar histological patterns have also been reported in
elastic tissues of vessel walls of the lungs and upper respiratory tract, joints,
visceral adventitia, and kidney.
CONCLUSIONS: A distinctive histological pattern of PCM-related EPS is observed in
affected and normal-appearing skin, as well as extracutaneous elastic tissue,
suggesting serious potential widespread drug-induced systemic elastolytic damage.

DOI: 10.1684/ejd.2018.3355 
PMID: 30129530  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


16. Nutrients. 2018 Aug 20;10(8). pii: E1123. doi: 10.3390/nu10081123.

Autoantibodies in the Extraintestinal Manifestations of Celiac Disease.

Yu XB(1)(2)(3), Uhde M(4)(5), Green PH(6)(7), Alaedini A(8)(9)(10).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Columbia University Medical Center, 1130 Saint
Nicholas Ave., New York, NY 10032, USA. xy2314@cumc.columbia.edu.
(2)Celiac Disease Center, Columbia University, New York, NY 10032, USA.
xy2314@cumc.columbia.edu.
(3)Institute of Human Nutrition, Columbia University, New York, NY 10032, USA.
xy2314@cumc.columbia.edu.
(4)Department of Medicine, Columbia University Medical Center, 1130 Saint
Nicholas Ave., New York, NY 10032, USA. melanieuhde86@gmail.com.
(5)Celiac Disease Center, Columbia University, New York, NY 10032, USA.
melanieuhde86@gmail.com.
(6)Department of Medicine, Columbia University Medical Center, 1130 Saint
Nicholas Ave., New York, NY 10032, USA. pg11@columbia.edu.
(7)Celiac Disease Center, Columbia University, New York, NY 10032, USA.
pg11@columbia.edu.
(8)Department of Medicine, Columbia University Medical Center, 1130 Saint
Nicholas Ave., New York, NY 10032, USA. aa819@columbia.edu.
(9)Celiac Disease Center, Columbia University, New York, NY 10032, USA.
aa819@columbia.edu.
(10)Institute of Human Nutrition, Columbia University, New York, NY 10032, USA.
aa819@columbia.edu.

Increased antibody reactivity towards self-antigens is often indicative of a
disruption of homeostatic immune pathways in the body. In celiac disease, an
autoimmune enteropathy triggered by the ingestion of gluten from wheat and
related cereals in genetically predisposed individuals, autoantibody reactivity
to transglutaminase 2 is reflective of the pathogenic role of the enzyme in
driving the associated inflammatory immune response. Autoantibody reactivity to
transglutaminase 2 closely corresponds with the gluten intake and clinical
presentation in affected patients, serving as a highly useful biomarker in the
diagnosis of celiac disease. In addition to gastrointestinal symptoms, celiac
disease is associated with a number of extraintestinal manifestations, including 
those affecting skin, bones, and the nervous system. Investigations of these
manifestations in celiac disease have identified a number of associated immune
abnormalities, including B cell reactivity towards various autoantigens, such as 
transglutaminase 3, transglutaminase 6, synapsin I, gangliosides, and collagen.
Clinical relevance, pathogenic potential, mechanism of development, and
diagnostic and prognostic value of the various identified autoantibody
reactivities continue to be subjects of investigation and will be reviewed here.

DOI: 10.3390/nu10081123 
PMCID: PMC6115844
PMID: 30127251  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


17. Indian J Crit Care Med. 2018 Apr;22(4):283-289. doi: 10.4103/ijccm.IJCCM_277_17.

Pressure Ulcer and Nutrition.

Saghaleini SH(1), Dehghan K(2), Shadvar K(1), Sanaie S(3), Mahmoodpoor A(1),
Ostadi Z(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, Faculty of Medicine, Tabriz University of
Medical Sciences, Tabriz, Iran.
(2)Department of Anesthesiology, Faculty of Medicine, Urmia University of Medical
Sciences, Urmia, Iran.
(3)Tuberculosis and Lung Disease Research Center, Tabriz University of Medical
Sciences, Tabriz, Iran.

Pressure ulcers can diminish global life quality, contribute to rapid mortality
in some patients and pose a significant cost to health-care organizations.
Accordingly, their prevention and management are highly important. Nutritional
deprivation and insufficient dietary intake are the key risk factors for the
development of pressure ulcers and impaired wound healing. Unplanned weight loss 
is a major risk factor for malnutrition and pressure ulcer development.
Suboptimal nutrition interferes with the function of the immune system, collagen 
synthesis, and tensile strength. No laboratory test can exactly define an
individual's nutritional status. Although serum albumin, prealbumin, transferrin,
and retinol-binding protein as well as anthropometric measures such as height,
weight, and body mass index and the other laboratory values may be suitable to
establish the overall prognosis, still they might not well represent the
nutritional status. Although the ideal nutrient intake to encourage wound healing
is unknown, increased needs for energy, protein, zinc, and Vitamins A, C, and E
and also amino acids such as arginine and glutamine have been documented.
Hydration plays a vital role in the preservation and repair of skin integrity.
Dehydration disturbs cell metabolism and wound healing. Adequate fluid intake is 
necessary to support the blood flow to wounded tissues and to prevent additional 
breakdown of the skin. The main aim of the present article is to review the
current evidence related to hydration and nutrition for bedsore prevention and
management in adults.

DOI: 10.4103/ijccm.IJCCM_277_17 
PMCID: PMC5930532
PMID: 29743767 

Conflict of interest statement: There are no conflicts of interest.


18. Nutrients. 2017 Aug 12;9(8). pii: E866. doi: 10.3390/nu9080866.

The Roles of Vitamin C in Skin Health.

Pullar JM(1), Carr AC(2), Vissers MCM(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Otago, Christchurch, P.O. Box 4345,
Christchurch 8140, New Zealand. juliet.pullar@otago.ac.nz.
(2)Department of Pathology, University of Otago, Christchurch, P.O. Box 4345,
Christchurch 8140, New Zealand. anitra.carr@otago.ac.nz.
(3)Department of Pathology, University of Otago, Christchurch, P.O. Box 4345,
Christchurch 8140, New Zealand. margreet.vissers@otago.ac.nz.

The primary function of the skin is to act as a barrier against insults from the 
environment, and its unique structure reflects this. The skin is composed of two 
layers: the epidermal outer layer is highly cellular and provides the barrier
function, and the inner dermal layer ensures strength and elasticity and gives
nutritional support to the epidermis. Normal skin contains high concentrations of
vitamin C, which supports important and well-known functions, stimulating
collagen synthesis and assisting in antioxidant protection against UV-induced
photodamage. This knowledge is often used as a rationale for the addition of
vitamin C to topical applications, but the efficacy of such treatment, as opposed
to optimising dietary vitamin C intake, is poorly understood. This review
discusses the potential roles for vitamin C in skin health and summarises the in 
vitro and in vivo research to date. We compare the efficacy of nutritional intake
of vitamin C versus topical application, identify the areas where lack of
evidence limits our understanding of the potential benefits of vitamin C on skin 
health, and suggest which skin properties are most likely to benefit from
improved nutritional vitamin C intake.

DOI: 10.3390/nu9080866 
PMCID: PMC5579659
PMID: 28805671  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.
Zespri International, a partial funder, had no influence on the selection of
material to cover, nor on the focus and interpretation of the studies reviewed.


19. Nutrients. 2017 Jun 17;9(6). pii: E622. doi: 10.3390/nu9060622.

Dietary Management of Skin Health: The Role of Genistein.

Irrera N(1), Pizzino G(2), D'Anna R(3), Vaccaro M(4), Arcoraci V(5), Squadrito
F(6), Altavilla D(7), Bitto A(8).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, University of Messina,
Messina 98125, Italy. nirrera@unime.it.
(2)Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, University of Messina,
Messina 98125, Italy. cgpizzino@unime.it.
(3)Department of Human Pathology, University of Messina, Messina 98125, Italy.
rdanna@unime.it.
(4)Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, University of Messina,
Messina 98125, Italy. vaccaro@unime.it.
(5)Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, University of Messina,
Messina 98125, Italy. varcoraci@unime.it.
(6)Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, University of Messina,
Messina 98125, Italy. fsquadrito@unime.it.
(7)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Dentistry and Morphological and Functional 
Images, University of Messina, Messina 98125, Italy. daltavilla@unime.it.
(8)Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, University of Messina,
Messina 98125, Italy. abitto@unime.it.

In women, aging and declining estrogen levels are associated with several
cutaneous changes, many of which can be reversed or improved by estrogen
supplementation. Two estrogen receptors-α and β-have been cloned and found in
various tissue types. Epidermal thinning, declining dermal collagen content,
diminished skin moisture, decreased laxity, and impaired wound healing have been 
reported in postmenopausal women. Experimental and clinical studies in
postmenopausal conditions indicate that estrogen deprivation is associated with
dryness, atrophy, fine wrinkling, and poor wound healing. The isoflavone
genistein binds to estrogen receptor β and has been reported to improve skin
changes. This review article will focus on the effects of genistein on skin
health.

DOI: 10.3390/nu9060622 
PMCID: PMC5490601
PMID: 28629129  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


20. Intractable Rare Dis Res. 2017 Feb;6(1):6-20. doi: 10.5582/irdr.2017.01005.

Novel and emerging therapies in the treatment of recessive dystrophic
epidermolysis bullosa.

Rashidghamat E(1), McGrath JA(1).

Author information: 
(1)St. John's Institute of Dermatology, King's College London, London, United
Kingdom.

Epidermolysis bullosa (EB) is a clinically and genetically heterogeneous group of
inherited blistering diseases that affects ∼ 500,000 people worldwide.
Clinically, individuals with EB have fragile skin and are susceptible to
blistering following minimal trauma, with mucous membrane and other organ
involvement in some subtypes. Within the spectrum of EB, ∼ 5% of affected
individuals have the clinically more severe recessive dystrophic (RDEB) variant
with a prevalence of 8 per one million of the population. RDEB is caused by
loss-of-function mutations in the type VII collagen gene, COL7A1, which leads to 
reduced or absent type VII collagen (C7) and a paucity of structurally effective 
anchoring fibrils at the dermal-epidermal junction (DEJ). Currently, there is no 
cure for RDEB, although considerable progress has been made in testing novel
treatments including gene therapy (lentiviral and gamma retroviral vectors for
COL7A1 supplementation in keratinocytes and fibroblasts), as well as cell therapy
(use of allogeneic fibroblasts, mesenchymal stromal cells (MSCs), and bone marrow
transplantation (BMT)). Here, we review current treatment modalities available as
well as novel and emerging therapies in the treatment of RDEB. Clinical trials of
new translational therapies in RDEB offer hope for improved clinical management
of patients as well as generating broader lessons for regenerative medicine that 
could be applicable to other inherited or acquired abnormalities of wound healing
or scarring.

DOI: 10.5582/irdr.2017.01005 
PMCID: PMC5359356
PMID: 28357176 


21. Wounds. 2015 Dec;27(12):327-35.

Nutrition in Wound Care Management: A Comprehensive Overview.

Quain AM(1), Khardori NM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Eastern Virginia Medical School, Norfolk, VA.

Wound care is a multidisciplinary specialty requiring many physiologic and
immunologic processes as well as physical, social, and societal factors to
achieve successful wound closure. Most wounds are treated with combinations of
antimicrobials, protective barriers, and topical growth agents, including skin
and biologic grafts.The role of nutrition in wound healing may be overlooked in
the wound care patient. Like the specialty, it is often multifaceted, with many
nutritional components playing a variety of roles in the wound healing process.
Suboptimal nutrition can alter immune function, collagen synthesis, and wound
tensile strength, all of which are essential in the wound healing process. It is 
also important to remember that not all wounds are equal: a burn is different
from a diabetic foot ulcer, which is different from a pressure ulcer.
Nonetheless, nutrition is a common denominator for all wound patients, and what
is studied in 1 wound population is often relevant in another. Due to the
complexities of monitoring and measuring both wound healing and dietary intake,
randomized, controlled trials of wound care patients are difficult to conduct,
and much of the data concerning nutrition in wound care relies on combined
supplements. In summary, it appears that some nutrients are necessary only if
deficient, whereas others may become conditionally essential and serve a
therapeutic role. All of the nutrients discussed should be viewed as a component 
of a broader, complete diet. This article is a summary of wound healing and the
roles of a variety of macronutrients and micronutrients in the process.


PMID: 27447105  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


22. Adv Exp Med Biol. 2015;865:93-108. doi: 10.1007/978-3-319-18603-0_6.

Foreign Body Reaction to Subcutaneous Implants.

Kastellorizios M(1), Tipnis N, Burgess DJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of Connecticut, 69 N
Eagleville Rd, U3092, Storrs, CT, 06269, USA, michalis108@gmail.com.

Subcutaneously implanted materials trigger the host's innate immune system,
resulting in the foreign body reaction. This reaction consists of protein
adsorption on the implant surface, inflammatory cell infiltration, macrophage
fusion into foreign body giant cells, fibroblast activation and ultimately
fibrous encapsulation. This series of events may affect the function of
subcutaneous implants, such as inhibition of drug diffusion from long-acting drug
delivery depots and medical device failure. The foreign body reaction is a
complex phenomenon and is not yet fully understood; ongoing research studies aim 
to elucidate the cellular and molecular dynamics involved. Recent studies have
revealed information about the specific role of macrophages and their
differential activation towards pro- and anti-inflammatory states, as well as
species differences in the timing of collagen deposition and fibrosis.
Understanding of the diverse processes involved in the foreign body reaction has 
led to multiple approaches towards its negation. Delivery of tissue response
modifiers, such as corticosteroids, NSAIDs, antifibrotic agents, and siRNAs, has 
been used to prevent or minimize fibrosis. Of these, delivery of dexamethasone
throughout the implantation period is the most common method to prevent
inflammation and fibrosis. More recent approaches employ surface modifications to
minimize protein adsorption to 'ultra-low' levels and reduce fibrosis. However,
the diverse nature of the processes involved in the foreign body reaction favor
the use of corticosteroids due to their wide spectrum action compared to other
approaches. To date, combination approaches, such as hydrophilic coatings that
reduce protein adsorption combined with delivery of dexamethasone are the most
effective.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-18603-0_6 
PMID: 26306445  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


23. Nutr Hosp. 2015 Jul 18;32 Suppl 1:62-6. doi: 10.3305/nh.2015.32.sup1.9482.

[An overview of the beneficial effects of hydrolysed collagen intake on joint and
bone health and on skin ageing].

[Article in Spanish; Abstract available in Spanish from the publisher]

Figueres Juher T(1), Basés Pérez E(2).

Author information: 
(1)Licenciada en Biología por la Universitat Autonoma de Barcelona. COLNATUR®..
e.bases@proteinsa.com.
(2)Ingeniero Químico Orgánico por el Institut Químic de Sarria, Barcelona.
COLNATUR®.. e.bases@proteinsa.com.

INTRODUCTION: Hydrolysate Collagen (HC) consists of small peptides with a
molecular weight lower than 5.000 Da. produced from gelatinization and subsequent
enzymatic hydrolysis of native collagen which is found in rich collagenic animal 
tissues. There is much evidence about the HC ingestion positive effect over
degenerative joint and bones diseases.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this article is to review the present scientific studies
about HC and to evaluate the HC ingestion therapeutical effects on some
collagenic tissues as cartilage, bones and skin.
RESULTS: Up to date, there are more than 60 scientific studies (in vitro, in
vivo, clinics and on bioavailability) about HC ingestion efficacy on reducing
collagen damage and loss consequences as joint pain and erosion (osteoarthritis),
bone density loss (osteoporosis) and skin ageing.
CONCLUSIONS: Preclinical studies show that HC stimulates collagenic tissue
regeneration by increasing not only collagen synthesis but minor components
(glycosaminoglycans and hyaluronic acid) synthesis as well. Clinical studies show
that HC continual ingestion helps to reduce and prevent joint pain, bone density 
loss and skin ageing. These results as well as its high level of tolerance and
safety make HC ingestion attractive for a long-term use in bone and joint
degenerative diseases and in fight against skin ageing.

Publisher: Introducción: el colágeno hidrolizado (CH) es una mezcla de péptidos
de colágeno con un peso molecular (PM) inferior a 5.000 Da. Se obtiene de la
gelatinización y posterior hidrólisis enzimática de colágeno nativo procedente de
tejidos animales ricos en esta proteína. Existe abundante evidencia científica
sobre el efecto positivo que la toma de CH ejerce sobre las patologías
osteoarticulares degenerativas y el envejecimiento dérmico. Objetivo: revisar los
estudios científicos existentes actualmente sobre el CH y evaluar su acción
terapéutica sobre algunos tejidos colaginosos como cartílagos, huesos y piel.
Resultados: hasta la fecha se han realizado más de 60 estudios científicos (in
vitro, in vivo, clínicos y de biodisponibilidad) sobre la efectividad del CH a la
hora de reducir las consecuencias del deterioro y pérdida de colágeno tisular
como son el dolor y el desgaste articular (artrosis), la pérdida de masa ósea
(osteoporosis) y el envejecimiento dérmico. Conclusiones: los estudios
preclínicos indican que el CH estimula la regeneración de los tejidos
colaginosos, potenciando la síntesis de colágeno tisular y también de los
restantes componentes minoritarios de dichos tejidos (proteoglicanos y ácido
hialurónico). Los estudios clínicos demuestran que la ingesta continuada de CH
ayuda a reducir el dolor articular de desgaste, a ralentizar la pérdida de masa
ósea y a atenuar los signos de envejecimiento dérmico. Estos resultados, junto
con su alto nivel de seguridad y tolerancia, hacen del CH un suplemento adecuado 
para tomar a largo plazo, indicado para prevenir y tratar enfermedades crónicas
degenerativas (artrosis y osteoporosis), así como para prevenir y atenuar el
envejecimiento dérmico.
Copyright AULA MEDICA EDICIONES 2014. Published by AULA MEDICA. All rights
reserved.

DOI: 10.3305/nh.2015.32.sup1.9482 
PMID: 26267777  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


24. Indian J Endocrinol Metab. 2014 Nov;18(Suppl 1):S9-S16. doi:
10.4103/2230-8210.145043.

Vitamin D deficiency in adolescents.

Soliman AT(1), De Sanctis V(2), Elalaily R(3), Bedair S(4), Kassem I(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of Alexandria, Alexandria, Egypt.
(2)Pediatric and Adolescent Outpatients Clinic, Quisisana Hospital, Ferrara,
Italy.
(3)Department of Primary Health Care, AbuNakhla Hospital, Doha, Qatar.
(4)Department of Radiology, AlKhor Hospital, Hamad Medical Center, Doha, Qatar.
(5)Department of Faciomaxillay Surgery, University of Alexandria, Alexandria,
Egypt.

The prevalence of severe vitamin D deficiency (VDD) in adolescents is variable
but considerably high in many countries, especially in Middle-east and Southeast 
Asia. Different factors attribute to this deficiency including lack of sunlight
exposure due to cultural dress codes and veiling or due to pigmented skin, and
less time spent outdoors, because of hot weather, and lower vitamin D intake. A
potent adaptation process significantly modifies the clinical presentation and
therefore clinical presentations may be subtle and go unnoticed, thus making true
prevalence studies difficult. Adolescents with severe VDD may present with vague 
manifestations including pain in weight-bearing joints, back, thighs and/or
calves, difficulty in walking and/or climbing stairs, or running and muscle
cramps. Adaptation includes increased parathormone (PTH) and deceased
insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) secretion. PTH enhances the tubular
reabsorption of Ca and stimulates the kidneys to produce 1, 25-(OH) 2D3 that
increases intestinal calcium absorption and dissolves the mineralized collagen
matrix in bone, causing osteopenia and osteoporosis to provide enough Ca to
prevent hypocalcaemia. Decreased insulin like growth factor-I (IGF-I) delays bone
growth to economize calcium consumption. Radiological changes are not uncommon
and include osteoporosis/osteopenia affecting long bones as well as vertebrae and
ribs, bone cysts, decalcification of the metaphysis of the long bones and pseudo 
fractures. In severe cases pathological fractures and deformities may occur.
Vitamin D treatment of adolescents with VDD differs considerably in different
studies and proved to be effective in treating all clinical, biochemical, and
radiological manifestations. Different treatment regiments for VDD have been
discussed and presented in this mini-review for practical use. Adequate vitamin D
replacement after treating VDD, improving calcium intake (milk and dairy
products), encouraging adequate exposure to the sun and possible enrichment of
the stable food with vitamin D in areas with high prevalence of VDD are important
measures to prevent the harmful consequences of VDD.

DOI: 10.4103/2230-8210.145043 
PMCID: PMC4266875
PMID: 25538884 


25. J Lifestyle Med. 2014 Mar;4(1):8-16. doi: 10.15280/jlm.2014.4.1.8. Epub 2014 Mar 
31.

The Role of Functional Foods in Cutaneous Anti-aging.

Cho S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology, Seoul National University College of Medicine and
Boramae Hospital ; Laboratory of Cutaneous Aging and Hair Research, Biomedical
Research Institute, Seoul National University Hospital ; Institute of
Human-Environment Interface Biology, Medical Research Center, Seoul National
University, Seoul, Korea.

Oral supplementation of micronutrients, or functional foods, to prevent aging has
gained much attention and popularity as society ages and becomes more affluent,
and as science reveals the pathological mechanisms of aging. Aging of the skin
combines biologic aging and extrinsic aging caused predominantly by sunlight and 
other environmental toxins. Anti-aging functional foods exert their influence
mostly through their anti-oxidant and anti-inflammatory effects, thereby
abrogating collagen degradation and/or increasing procollagen synthesis. Clinical
evidence supporting a role in preventing cutaneous aging is available for oral
supplements such as carotenoids, polyphenols, chlorophyll, aloe vera, vitamins C 
and E, red ginseng, squalene, and omega-3 fatty acids. Collagen peptides and
proteoglycans are claimed to provide building blocks of the dermal matrix. This
review summarizes the current study findings of these functional foods.

DOI: 10.15280/jlm.2014.4.1.8 
PMCID: PMC4390761
PMID: 26064850 


26. Nihon Rinsho Meneki Gakkai Kaishi. 2011;34(6):439-46.

[microRNA in autoimmune disorders].

[Article in Japanese]

Jinnin M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology and Plastic Surgery, Kumamoto University, Japan.

microRNAs, short ribonucleic acid molecules which is typically 20-25 nucleotides 
long, can bind to complementary sequences in the three prime untranslated regions
of target mRNAs, leading to the inhibition of translation or degradation of the
mRNA. Theologically, human genome may have more than 1000 microRNAs, which target
about 60% of human mRNAs. Thus, microRNAs have been implicated in the
pathogenesis of various disorders. This paper discusses the present day
understanding about the expression and role in various autoimmune diseases
including rheumatoid arthritis, Sjogren syndrome, polymyositis/dermatomyositis,
systemic lupus erythematosus, scleroderma, type I diabetis, and psoriasis. For
example, the expression of miR-29, which targets type I collagen mRNA, is
reported to be down-regulated in cultured dermal fibroblasts derived from
scleroderma skin, contributing to excessive collagen production in this disease. 
Supplementation of the microRNA results in the decrease of collagen expression in
scleroderma fibroblasts. In addition, serum miR-29a levels are significantly
decreased in the very early stage of scleroderma. Investigation of the
involvement of microRNAs in the pathogenesis of each autoimmune disease may lead 
to develop new biomarker and new therapeutic approach.

DOI: 10.2177/jsci.34.439 
PMID: 22214804  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


27. Actas Dermosifiliogr. 2006 Nov;97(9):557-68.

[Vitamin C].

[Article in Spanish]

Valdés F(1).

Author information: 
(1)Unidad de Dermatología, Hospital da Costa, Rafael Vior s/n, 27880 Burela,
Lugo, Spain. fernando.valdes.tascon@sergas.es

Vitamin C or ascorbic acid is a hydrosoluble vitamin derived from glucose
metabolism. It acts as a reductor agent required for synthesis of collagen fibers
through hydroxylation of proline and lysine. It also protects the body against
damage caused by the free radicals. Humans cannot synthesize ascorbic acid as
they lack an enzyme called gulonolactone oxidase. Concentrations in plasma and
leukocytes reflect the levels of the diet and body deposits respectively of this 
vitamin. Among foods with high vitamin C levels are tomatoes, potatoes, and
citrus fruits such as limes, oranges and lemons. The current recommendation of
daily intake of vitamin C is 90 mg/d for men and 75 mg/d for women. Patients with
chronic diseases such as cancer or diabetes or those who smoke need higher doses 
in their usual diet. Ascorbic acid deficiency gives rise to the appearance of
scurvy. This disease is rarely seen in developed countries. The symptoms develop 
with plasma levels below 0.15 mg/dL. Scurvy is characterized by the presence of
weakness, joint pain or skin lesions in form of petechias, gum bleeding, ease of 
developing bruises or delay in wound healing. The most characteristic skin
manifestations are purpuric perifollicular hyperkeratotic papules and the
presence of kinky hair.

DOI: 10.1016/s0001-7310(06)73466-4 
PMID: 17173758  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


28. J Am Acad Dermatol. 2005 Oct;53(4):555-68; quiz 569-72.

Estrogen and skin: the effects of estrogen, menopause, and hormone replacement
therapy on the skin.

Hall G(1), Phillips TJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology, Boston University School of Medicine, Boston, MA
02118, USA.

Comment in
    J Am Acad Dermatol. 2006 Dec;55(6):1115-6.
    J Am Acad Dermatol. 2007 Sep;57(3):532-3.

Aging is associated with declining levels of several hormones, including
estrogen. Although the effects of estrogen on the skin are still not fully
understood, it is known that, in women, declining estrogen levels are associated 
with a variety of cutaneous changes, many of which can be reversed or improved by
estrogen supplementation. Estrogens are C-18 steroids synthesized from
cholesterol in the ovary premenopausally and in the peripheral tissue in
postmenopausal women. Two estrogen receptors, alpha and beta, have been cloned
and found in various tissue types. Studies of postmenopausal women indicate that 
estrogen deprivation is associated with dryness, atrophy, fine wrinkling, poor
healing, and hot flashes. Epidermal thinning, declining dermal collagen content, 
diminished skin moisture, decreased laxity, and impaired wound healing have been 
reported in postmenopausal women. This article reviews the effects of declining
estrogen levels on the skin and the effects of estrogen supplementation.LEARNING 
OBJECTIVE: At the conclusion of this learning activity, participants should be
familiar with the pathways of estrogen synthesis, sites of estrogen receptors,
age-dependent variations in serum estrogen concentration, the changes seen in
postmenopausal skin, and the effects of estrogen supplementation.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jaad.2004.08.039 
PMID: 16198774  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


29. Indian J Med Res. 1998 Nov;108:182-90.

Riboflavin metabolism--relevance to human nutrition.

Lakshmi AV(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, National Institute of Nutrition (ICMR), Hyderabad.

Studies in developing countries like India have revealed a very high incidence of
biochemical riboflavin deficiency, particularly in women and children as judged
by erythrocyte glutathione reductase activation test (EGR-AC). Riboflavin
deficiency can cause conditioned deficiency of vitamin B6 and the mucocutaneous
lesions observed in these two vitamins deficiencies could be due to impaired skin
collagen maturity. Subclinical riboflavin deficiency impairs psychomotor function
and vitamin B2 requirement may be enhanced during increased physical activity.
Riboflavin status is not dependent exclusively on dietary intake of the vitamin, 
certain non-dietary factors can modify riboflavin status. Respiratory infection, 
certain diseases, drugs and hormones can influence riboflavin metabolism.


PMID: 9863274  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. Drug Saf. 1992 Jan-Feb;7(1):14-31.

Adverse effects of angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors. An update.

Parish RC(1), Miller LJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacy Practice, College of Pharmacy, University of Georgia,
Athens.

The angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors are a group of effective drugs
with a unique mechanism of action. These drugs have proven to be useful for
hypertension and congestive heart failure. Early clinical trials of captopril
used doses that are now known to be inappropriately high, and dose-related
adverse effects were observed frequently. The recognition that lower doses are
effective has reduced the incidence of adverse reactions and resulted in improved
patient tolerance. When patients are properly selected and correctable risk
factors are removed, serious side effects are uncommon. Unfortunately, the early 
reputation of nephrotoxicity persists, as does the belief that significant blood 
dyscrasias, endocrine effects and rash are serious risks for the average patient.
After wide use of captopril, enalapril and lisinopril, and investigational trials
of nearly a dozen newer agents, a sufficiency of clinical observation,
experimental evidence and accurate postmarketing recording of events is
accumulating to allow insight into the major toxicities with regard to more
intelligent patient selection, more rational dosing and proper identification of 
risk factors. The most common adverse reactions are cough and skin rash. It
appears that the agents are generally not cross-reactive with regard to skin
rash, although it is not clear whether this effect is drug-specific or
class-specific with regard to cough. Statistically but not clinically significant
lowering of haemoglobin and hematocrit is common; these effects are
inconsequential in most patients. Neutropenia, once thought to be prevalent, now 
appears to be so only in patients with autoimmune or collagen-vascular disease;
the majority of patients outside these groups are at low risk. Hyperkalaemia is a
frequent occurrence. This should not be surprising in view of the effect of the
ACE inhibitors on plasma aldosterone. When dietary potassium intake is regulated 
and sources of altered potassium excretion are identified, hyperkalaemia is
seldom a serious problem. Identification of sodium and water deficits allows
correction before the drugs are started, and the frequency of hypotension and
hyperkalaemia caused by the drugs is quite low if these factors are properly
managed. An unexpected finding emerging in recent years is the dry cough
associated with ACE inhibitor therapy. Its mechanism is not definitely known.
Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs may control this symptom in some patients.
The frequent observation of proteinuria in patients taking ACE inhibitors has
gained notice and sometimes caused undue alarm. It is difficult to separate
disease effects in diabetes and hypertension from true drug effects.(ABSTRACT
TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

DOI: 10.2165/00002018-199207010-00004 
PMID: 1536695  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

