

1008. J Virol. 2016 Sep 29;90(20):9153-62. doi: 10.1128/JVI.01051-16. Print 2016 Oct
15.

Acute Liver Damage Associated with Innate Immune Activation in a Small Nonhuman
Primate Model of Hepacivirus Infection.

Manickam C(1), Rajakumar P(2), Wachtman L(3), Kramer JA(3), Martinot AJ(1),
Varner V(1), Giavedoni LD(4), Reeves RK(5).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Virology and Vaccine Research, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical
Center, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(2)Yerkes National Primate Research Center, Emory University, Atlanta, Georgia,
USA.
(3)New England Primate Research Center, Harvard Medical School, Southborough
Campus, Southborough, Massachusetts, USA.
(4)Southwest National Primate Research Center, Texas Biomedical Research
Institute, San Antonio, Texas, USA.
(5)Center for Virology and Vaccine Research, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical
Center, Boston, Massachusetts, USA New England Primate Research Center, Harvard
Medical School, Southborough Campus, Southborough, Massachusetts, USA
rreeves@bidmc.harvard.edu.

Despite its importance in shaping adaptive immune responses, viral clearance, and
immune-based inflammation, tissue-specific innate immunity remains poorly
characterized for hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection due to the lack of access to 
acutely infected tissues. In this study, we evaluated the impact of natural
killer (NK) cells and myeloid (mDCs) and plasmacytoid (pDCs) dendritic cells on
control of virus replication and virus-induced pathology caused by another, more 
rapidly resolving hepacivirus, GB virus B (GBV-B), in infections of common
marmosets. High plasma and liver viral loads and robust hepatitis characterized
acute GBV-B infection, and while viremia was generally cleared by 2 to 3 months
postinfection, hepatitis and liver fibrosis persisted after clearance. Coinciding
with peak viral loads and liver pathology, the levels of NK cells, mDCs, and pDCs
in the liver increased up to 3-fold. Although no obvious numerical changes in
peripheral innate cells occurred, circulating NK cells exhibited increased
perforin and Ki67 expression levels and increased surface expression of CXCR3.
These data suggested that increased NK cell arming and proliferation as well as
tissue trafficking may be associated with influx into the liver during acute
infection. Indeed, NK cell frequencies in the liver positively correlated with
plasma (R = 0.698; P = 0.015) and liver (R = 0.567; P = 0.057) viral loads.
Finally, soluble factors associated with NK cells and DCs, including gamma
interferon (IFN-γ) and RANTES, were increased in acute infection and also were
associated with viral loads and hepatitis. Collectively, the findings showed that
mobilization of local and circulating innate immune responses was linked to acute
virus-induced hepatitis, and potentially to resolution of GBV-B infection, and
our results may provide insight into similar mechanisms in HCV
infection.IMPORTANCE: Hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection has created a global
health crisis, and despite new effective antivirals, it is still a leading cause 
of liver disease and death worldwide. Recent evidence suggests that innate
immunity may be a potential therapeutic target for HCV, but it may also be a
correlate of increased disease. Due to a lack of access to human tissues with
acute HCV infection, in this study we evaluated the role of innate immunity in
resolving infection with a hepacivirus, GBV-B, in common marmosets. Collectively,
our data suggest that NK cell and DC mobilization in acute hepacivirus infection 
can dampen virus replication but also regulate acute and chronic liver damage.
How these two opposing effects on the host may be modulated in future therapeutic
and vaccine approaches warrants further study.

Copyright © 2016, American Society for Microbiology. All Rights Reserved.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.01051-16 
PMCID: PMC5044824
PMID: 27489267  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1009. Tissue Eng Regen Med. 2016 Aug 5;13(4):323-334. doi: 10.1007/s13770-016-9091-4.
eCollection 2016 Aug.

Use of nonhuman primates for the development of bioengineered female reproductive
organs.

Yun JW(1), Kim YY(2), Ahn JH(1)(3), Kang BC(1)(3)(4)(5)(6), Ku SY(2)(7).

Author information: 
(1)1Department of Experimental Animal Research, Biomedical Research Institute,
Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul, Korea.
(2)2Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Seoul National University College of
Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(3)3Graduate School of Translational Medicine, Seoul National University College 
of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(4)4Designed Animal Research Center, Institute of GreenBio Science Technology,
Seoul National University, Pyeongchang, Korea.
(5)5Biomedical Center for Animal Resource and Development, N-BIO, Seoul National 
University, Seoul, Korea.
(6)6Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Seoul National University College of
Medicine, 101 Daehak-ro, Jongno-gu, Seoul, 03080 Korea.
(7)7Graduate School of Translational Medicine, Seoul National University College 
of Medicine, 101 Daehak-ro, Jongno-gu, Seoul, 03080 Korea.

Nonhuman primates (NHPs) have been widely used in reproductive biology,
neuroscience, and drug development since a number of primate species are
phylogenetically close to humans. In this review, we summarize the use of NHPs
for nonclinical application in the reproductive system disorders including the
loss or failure of an organ or tissue. Causes of infertility include congenital
aplasia and acquired disorders of the reproductive organs. In addition,
anti-cancer treatments can deplete ovarian follicles, leading to premature
ovarian failure, infertility and long-term health risks. Along with a limited
supply of human reproductive organs, anatomic/physiologic similarities to humans 
support the need for NHP models (New-World monkeys such as the common marmoset
and Old-World monkeys such as cynomolgus and rhesus monkeys) to promote the
advances in female infertility studies. For maintaining and executing animal
studies using NHP, special protocols including animal care, anesthetic protocol, 
surgical technique, and immunosuppressive protocol are necessary. With a growing 
interest in the potential therapies such as endometrial tissue engineering, and
ovary/follicle cryopreservation and grafting in Korea, this review can be useful 
in selecting appropriate animal models and can bridge between nonclinical studies
and clinical applications by providing detailed information on the use of NHPs in
the field of reproductive organ disorders.

DOI: 10.1007/s13770-016-9091-4 
PMCID: PMC6171544
PMID: 30603414 

