

1029. Pathobiol Aging Age Relat Dis. 2016 Jun 23;6:31793. doi: 10.3402/pba.v6.31793.
eCollection 2016.

Pharmaceutical inhibition of mTOR in the common marmoset: effect of rapamycin on 
regulators of proteostasis in a non-human primate.

Lelegren M(1)(2), Liu Y(2), Ross C(2)(3)(4)(5), Tardif S(2)(3)(5), Salmon
AB(1)(2)(6).

Author information: 
(1)Geriatric Research, Education and Clinical Center, South Texas Veterans Health
Care System, San Antonio, TX, USA.
(2)The Sam and Ann Barshop Institute for Longevity and Aging Studies, The
University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio, San Antonio, TX, USA.
(3)Department of Cellular and Structural Biology, The University of Texas Health 
Science Center at San Antonio, San Antonio, TX, USA.
(4)Department of Biology, Texas A&M University at San Antonio, San Antonio, TX,
USA.
(5)Southwest National Primate Research Center, Texas Biomedical Research
Institute, San Antonio, TX, USA.
(6)Department of Molecular Medicine, The University of Texas Health Science
Center at San Antonio, San Antonio, TX, USA; salmona@uthscsa.edu.

BACKGROUND: Inhibition of mechanistic target of rapamycin (mTOR) has emerged as a
viable means to lengthen lifespan and healthspan in mice, although it is still
unclear whether these benefits will extend to other mammalian species. We
previously reported results from a pilot experiment wherein common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus) were treated orally with rapamycin to reduce mTOR signaling 
in vivo in line with previous reports in mice and humans. Further, long-term
treatment did not significantly alter body weight, daily activity, blood lipid
concentrations, or glucose metabolism in this cohort.
METHODS: In this study, we report on the molecular consequences of rapamycin
treatment in marmosets on mechanisms that regulate protein homeostasis
(proteostasis) in vivo. There is growing appreciation for the role of
proteostasis in longevity and for the role that mTOR plays in regulating this
process. Tissue samples of liver and skeletal muscle from marmosets in our pilot 
cohort were assessed for expression and activity of components of the
ubiquitin-proteasome system, macroautophagy, and protein chaperones.
RESULTS: Rapamycin treatment was associated with increased expression of PSMB5, a
core subunit of the 20S proteasome, but not PSMB8 which is involved in the
formation of the immunoproteasome, in the skeletal muscle and liver.
Surprisingly, proteasome activity measured in these tissues was not affected by
rapamycin. Rapamycin treatment was associated with an increased expression of
mitochondria-targeted protein chaperones in skeletal muscle, but not liver.
Finally, autophagy was increased in skeletal muscle and adipose, but not liver,
from rapamycin-treated marmosets.
CONCLUSIONS: Overall, these data show tissue-specific upregulation of some, but
not all, components of the proteostasis network in common marmosets treated with 
a pharmaceutical inhibitor of mTOR.

DOI: 10.3402/pba.v6.31793 
PMCID: PMC4920937
PMID: 27341957 


1030. Neuroreport. 2016 Aug 3;27(11):833-6. doi: 10.1097/WNR.0000000000000624.

Expression pattern of wolframin, the WFS1 (Wolfram syndrome-1 gene) product, in
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) cochlea.

Suzuki N(1), Hosoya M, Oishi N, Okano H, Fujioka M, Ogawa K.

Author information: 
(1)Departments of aOtorhinolaryngology, Head and Neck Surgery bPhysiology, Keio
University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.

Wolfram syndrome is an autosomal recessive disorder of the neuroendocrine system,
known as DIDMOAD (Diabetes Insipidus, Diabetes Mellitus, Optic Atrophy and
Deafness) syndrome, and considered an endoplasmic reticulum disease. Patients
show mutations in WFS1, which encodes the 890 amino acid protein wolframin.
Although Wfs1 knockout mice develop diabetes, their hearing level is completely
normal. In this study, we examined the expression of wolframin in the cochlea of 
a nonhuman primate common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) to elucidate the
discrepancy in the phenotype between species and the pathophysiology of Wolfram
syndrome-associated deafness. The marmoset cochlea showed wolframin
immunoreactivity not only in the spiral ligament type I fibrocytes, spiral
ganglion neurons, outer hair cells, and supporting cells, but in the stria
vascularis basal cells, where wolframin expression was not observed in the
previous mouse study. Considering the absence of the deafness phenotype in Wfs1
knockout mice, the expression of wolframin in the basal cells of primates may
play an essential role in the maintenance of hearing. Elucidating the function of
wolframin protein in the basal cells of primates would be essential for
understanding the pathogenesis of hearing loss in patients with Wolfram syndrome,
which may lead to the discovery of new therapeutics.

DOI: 10.1097/WNR.0000000000000624 
PMID: 27341211  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

