

1038. Comp Med. 2016;66(3):254-8.

Uterine Rupture in a Common Marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Divincenti L Jr(1), Miller AD(2), Knoedl DJ(3), Mitchell JF(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Comparative Medicine, University of Rochester, Rochester, New
York, USA. louis_divincenti@urmc.rochester.edu.
(2)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Section of Anatomic Pathology, Cornell
University College of Veterinary Medicine, Ithaca, New York, USA.
(3)Brain and Cognitive Sciences, University of Rochester, Rochester, New York,
USA.

A 5-y-old multiparous female common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) presented with 
acute weight loss of approximately 25% over a 1-wk period. An abdominal mass was 
apparent on physical examination, and radiographs suggested peritoneal effusion. 
Exploratory laparotomy revealed hemoperitoneum and an enlarged, gray,
hemorrhaging uterus; ovariohysterectomy was performed, and the marmoset
recovered. Histologic evaluation of the ovaries and uterus revealed uterine
rupture, with invasion of placental villi lined by trophoblasts through the
myometrium to the serosal layer. Primary uterine rupture is a rare but serious
obstetric event in humans and has been reported only rarely in NHP. This report
is the first description of primary uterine rupture during early pregnancy in a
common marmoset.


PMCID: PMC4907536
PMID: 27298252  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1039. J Chem Neuroanat. 2016 Nov;77:100-109. doi: 10.1016/j.jchemneu.2016.05.010. Epub 
2016 Jun 9.

Nuclear organization of the substantia nigra, ventral tegmental area and
retrorubral field of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus): A
cytoarchitectonic and TH-immunohistochemistry study.

Cavalcanti JRLP(1), Pontes ALB(2), Fiuza FP(2), Silva KDA(2), Guzen FP(3), Lucena
EES(3), Nascimento-Júnior ES(4), Cavalcante JC(4), Costa MSMO(4), Engelberth
RCGJ(2), Cavalcante JS(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Laboratory of Experimental Neurology,
Health Science Center, University of State of Rio Grande do Norte, Mossoró, RN,
Brazil; Department of Physiology, Laboratory of Neurochemical Studies,
Biosciences Center, Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, RN, Brazil.
Electronic address: rodolfolopes@uern.br.
(2)Department of Physiology, Laboratory of Neurochemical Studies, Biosciences
Center, Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, RN, Brazil.
(3)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Laboratory of Experimental Neurology,
Health Science Center, University of State of Rio Grande do Norte, Mossoró, RN,
Brazil; Department of Physiology, Laboratory of Neurochemical Studies,
Biosciences Center, Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, RN, Brazil.
(4)Department of Morphology, Laboratory of Neuroanatomy, Biosciences Center,
Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, RN, Brazil.

It is widely known that the catecholamine group is formed by dopamine,
noradrenaline and adrenaline. Its synthesis is regulated by the enzyme called
tyrosine hydroxylase. 3-hydroxytyramine/dopamine (DA) is a precursor of
noradrenaline and adrenaline synthesis and acts as a neurotransmitter in the
central nervous system. The three main nuclei, being the retrorubral field (A8
group), the substantia nigra pars compacta (A9 group) and the ventral tegmental
area (A10 group), are arranged in the die-mesencephalic portion and are involved 
in three complex circuitries - the mesostriatal, mesolimbic and mesocortical
pathways. These pathways are involved in behavioral manifestations, motricity,
learning, reward and also in pathological conditions such as Parkinson's disease 
and schizophrenia. The aim of this study was to perform a morphological analysis 
of the A8, A9 and A10 groups in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus - a
neotropical primate), whose morphological and functional characteristics support 
its suitability for use in biomedical research. Coronal sections of the marmoset 
brain were submitted to Nissl staining and TH-immunohistochemistry. The
morphology of the neurons made it possible to subdivide the A10 group into seven 
distinct regions: interfascicular nucleus, raphe rostral linear nucleus and raphe
caudal linear nucleus in the middle line; paranigral and parainterfascicular
nucleus in the middle zone; the rostral portion of the ventral tegmental area
nucleus and parabrachial pigmented nucleus located in the dorsolateral portion of
the mesencephalic tegmentum. The A9 group was divided into four regions:
substantia nigra compacta dorsal and ventral tiers; substantia nigra compacta
lateral and medial clusters. No subdivisions were made for the A8 group. These
results reveal that A8, A9 and A10 are phylogenetically stable across species. As
such, further studies concerning such divisions are necessary in order to
evaluate the occurrence of subdivisions that express DA in other primate species,
with the aim of characterizing its functional relevance.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jchemneu.2016.05.010 
PMID: 27292410  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

