

1049. Cereb Cortex. 2017 May 1;27(5):2793-2808. doi: 10.1093/cercor/bhw124.

Spectral Signatures of Feedforward and Recurrent Circuitry in Monkey Area MT.

Solomon SS(1)(2), Morley JW(3), Solomon SG(4).

Author information: 
(1)Discipline of Physiology, School of Medical Sciences and Bosch Institute, The 
University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW 2006, Australia.
(2)Dominick P. Purpura Department of Neuroscience, Albert Einstein College of
Medicine, Bronx, NY 10461, USA.
(3)School of Medicine, Western Sydney University, Campbelltown, NSW 2560,
Australia.
(4)Department of Experimental Psychology, University College London, London WC1P 
0AH, UK.

Recordings of local field potential (LFP) in the visual cortex can show rhythmic 
activity at gamma frequencies (30-100 Hz). While the gamma rhythms in the primary
visual cortex have been well studied, the structural and functional
characteristics of gamma rhythms in extrastriate visual cortex are less clear.
Here, we studied the spatial distribution and functional specificity of gamma
rhythms in extrastriate middle temporal (MT) area of visual cortex in marmoset
monkeys. We found that moving gratings induced narrowband gamma rhythms across
cortical layers that were coherent across much of area MT. Moving dot fields
instead induced a broadband increase in LFP in middle and upper layers, with
weaker narrowband gamma rhythms in deeper layers. The stimulus dependence of LFP 
response in middle and upper layers of area MT appears to reflect the presence
(gratings) or absence (dot fields and other textures) of strongly oriented
contours. Our results suggest that gamma rhythms in these layers are propagated
from earlier visual cortex, while those in the deeper layers may emerge in area
MT.

© The Author 2016. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. For
Permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhw124 
PMID: 27170655  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1050. Exp Toxicol Pathol. 2016 Jun;68(6):335-43. doi: 10.1016/j.etp.2016.05.002. Epub
2016 May 7.

Morphology and staining behavior of neutrophilic and eosinophilic granulocytes of
the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Bleyer M(1), Curths C(2), Dahlmann F(2), Wichmann J(2), Bauer N(3), Moritz A(3), 
Braun A(4), Knauf S(2), Kaup FJ(5), Gruber-Dujardin E(5).

Author information: 
(1)Pathology Unit, German Primate Center, Leibniz-Institute for Primate Research,
Göttingen, Germany. Electronic address: mbleyer@dpz.eu.
(2)Pathology Unit, German Primate Center, Leibniz-Institute for Primate Research,
Göttingen, Germany; Fraunhofer Institute for Toxicology and Experimental
Medicine, Member of the German Center for Lung Research (DZL), Biomedical
Research in Endstage and Obstructive Lung Disease (BREATH) Research Network,
Member of the Cluster of Excellence Regenerative Biology to Reconstructive
Therapy (REBIRTH), Hannover, Germany.
(3)Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Clinical Pathophysiology and Clinical
Pathology, Justus-Liebig-University Gießen, Germany.
(4)Fraunhofer Institute for Toxicology and Experimental Medicine, Member of the
German Center for Lung Research (DZL), Biomedical Research in Endstage and
Obstructive Lung Disease (BREATH) Research Network, Member of the Cluster of
Excellence Regenerative Biology to Reconstructive Therapy (REBIRTH), Hannover,
Germany.
(5)Pathology Unit, German Primate Center, Leibniz-Institute for Primate Research,
Göttingen, Germany.

Common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) are frequently used as translational animal
models for human diseases. However, a comparative study of cytological and
histochemical detection methods as well as morphometric and ultrastructural
characterization of neutrophils and eosinophils in this species is lacking. Blood
samples of house dust mite sensitized and allergen challenged as well as
lipopolysaccharide (LPS) challenged marmosets were analyzed with different
cytological and histological staining methods. Furthermore, cell size and number 
of nuclear segments were compared between neutrophils and eosinophils. Electron
microscopy was performed to characterize the ultrastructure of granulocytes. Of
all applied cytological stains, three allowed differentiation of eosinophils and 
neutrophils and, thus, reliable quantification in blood smears:
May-Grünwald-Giemsa stain, Congo Red and Naphthol AS-D Chloroacetate-Esterase.
For histology, Hematoxylin-Eosin (H&E) could not demonstrate clear differences,
whereas Sirius Red, Congo Red, and Naphthol AS-D Chloroacetate Esterase showed
capable results for identification of eosinophils or neutrophils in lung tissue. 
Morphometry revealed that marmoset neutrophils have more nuclear segments and are
slightly larger than eosinophils. Ultrastructurally, eosinophils presented with
large homogeneous electron-dense granules without crystalloid cores, while
neutrophils were characterized by heterogeneous granules of different size and
density. Additionally, sombrero-like vesicles were detected in tissue eosinophils
of atopic marmosets, indicative for hypersensitivity-related piecemeal
degranulation. In conclusion, we provide a detailed overview of marmoset
eosinophils and neutrophils, important for phenotypic characterization of
marmoset models for human airway diseases.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.etp.2016.05.002 
PMID: 27165445  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

