

1073. Biol Lett. 2016 Mar;12(3):20150817. doi: 10.1098/rsbl.2015.0817.

CENP-B box, a nucleotide motif involved in centromere formation, occurs in a New 
World monkey.

Suntronpong A(1), Kugou K(2), Masumoto H(2), Srikulnath K(3), Ohshima K(4), Hirai
H(5), Koga A(6).

Author information: 
(1)Primate Research Institute, Kyoto University, Inuyama 484-8506, Japan Faculty 
of Science, Kasetsart University, Bangkok 10900, Thailand.
(2)Department of Frontier Research, Kazusa DNA Research Institute, Kisarazu
292-0818, Japan.
(3)Faculty of Science, Kasetsart University, Bangkok 10900, Thailand.
(4)Graduate School of Bioscience, Nagahama Institute of Bio-Science and
Technology, Nagahama 526-0829, Japan.
(5)Primate Research Institute, Kyoto University, Inuyama 484-8506, Japan.
(6)Primate Research Institute, Kyoto University, Inuyama 484-8506, Japan
koga.akihiko.5n@kyoto-u.ac.jp.

Centromere protein B (CENP-B) is one of the major proteins involved in centromere
formation, binding to centromeric repetitive DNA by recognizing a 17 bp motif
called the CENP-B box. Hominids (humans and great apes) carry large numbers of
CENP-B boxes in alpha satellite DNA (AS, the major centromeric repetitive DNA of 
simian primates). Only negative results have been reported regarding the presence
of the CENP-B box in other primate taxa. Consequently, it is widely believed that
the CENP-B box is confined, within primates, to the hominids. We report here that
the common marmoset, a New World monkey, contains an abundance of CENP-B boxes in
its AS. First, in a long contig sequence we constructed and analysed, we
identified the motif in 17 of the 38 alpha satellite repeat units. We then
sequenced terminal regions of additional clones and found the motif in many of
them. Immunostaining of marmoset cells demonstrated that CENP-B binds to DNA in
the centromeric regions of chromosomes. Therefore, functional CENP-B boxes are
not confined to hominids. Our results indicate that the efficiency of
identification of the CENP-B box may depend largely on the sequencing methods
used, and that the CENP-B box in centromeric repetitive DNA may be more common
than researchers previously thought.

© 2016 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1098/rsbl.2015.0817 
PMCID: PMC4843215 [Available on 2017-03-01]
PMID: 27029836  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1074. J Am Assoc Lab Anim Sci. 2016 Mar;55(2):137-46.

Plasma Metabolomics of Common Marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) to Evaluate Diet and
Feeding Husbandry.

Banton SA(1), Soltow QA(2), Liu KH(1), Uppal K(1), Promislow DE(3), Power ML(4), 
Tardif SD(5), Wachtman LM(6), Jones DP(7).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Pulmonary, Allergy and Critical Care Medicine, Department of
Medicine, Clinical Biomarkers Laboratory, Emory University, Atlanta, Georgia,
USA.
(2)Division of Pulmonary, Allergy and Critical Care Medicine, Department of
Medicine, Clinical Biomarkers Laboratory, Emory University, Atlanta, Georgia,
USA; Amplyx Pharmaceuticals, San Diego, California, USA.
(3)Department of Pathology, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.
(4)Nutrition Laboratory, Smithsonian Conservation Biology Institute, National
Zoological Park, Washington, District of Columbia, USA.
(5)Southwest National Primate Research Center, San Antonio, Texas, USA.
(6)New England Primate Research Center, Harvard University, Southborough,
Massachusetts, USA; Division of Comparative Medicine, Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA.
(7)Division of Pulmonary, Allergy and Critical Care Medicine, Department of
Medicine, Clinical Biomarkers Laboratory, Emory University, Atlanta, Georgia,
USA. dpjones@emory.edu.

Common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) are an important NHP model for the study of
human aging and age-related diseases. However, the full potential of marmosets as
a research model has not been realized due to a lack of evidence-based,
standardized procedures for their captive management, especially regarding diet
and feeding husbandry. In the present study, we conducted a high-resolution
metabolomics analysis of plasma from marmosets from a 3-mo dietary crossover
study to determine whether significant metabolic differences occur with a
semisynthetic chemically defined (purified) diet as needed for controlled
nutrition research. Marmosets were fed a standard, diverse-ingredient diet,
followed by a semisynthetic purified diet, and then were switched back to the
standard diet. The standard diet used in this analysis was specific to the animal
facility, but it is similar in content to the diets currently used for other
marmoset colonies. High-resolution metabolomics of plasma with liquid
chromatography-mass spectrometry and bioinformatics was used to measure metabolic
differences. The concentration of the essential amino acids methionine,
leucine/isoleucine, lysine, and threonine were higher when marmosets were fed the
purified diet. In contrast, phenylalanine concentrations were higher during
exposure to the standard diet. In addition, metabolic pathway enrichment and
analysis revealed differences among metabolites associated with dopamine
metabolism and the carnitine shuttle. These results show that diet-associated
differences in metabolism occur in marmosets and suggest that additional
nutritional studies with detailed physiologic characterization are needed to
optimize standard and purified diets for common marmosets.


PMCID: PMC4783630
PMID: 27025803  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

