

1074. J Am Assoc Lab Anim Sci. 2016 Mar;55(2):137-46.

Plasma Metabolomics of Common Marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) to Evaluate Diet and
Feeding Husbandry.

Banton SA(1), Soltow QA(2), Liu KH(1), Uppal K(1), Promislow DE(3), Power ML(4), 
Tardif SD(5), Wachtman LM(6), Jones DP(7).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Pulmonary, Allergy and Critical Care Medicine, Department of
Medicine, Clinical Biomarkers Laboratory, Emory University, Atlanta, Georgia,
USA.
(2)Division of Pulmonary, Allergy and Critical Care Medicine, Department of
Medicine, Clinical Biomarkers Laboratory, Emory University, Atlanta, Georgia,
USA; Amplyx Pharmaceuticals, San Diego, California, USA.
(3)Department of Pathology, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.
(4)Nutrition Laboratory, Smithsonian Conservation Biology Institute, National
Zoological Park, Washington, District of Columbia, USA.
(5)Southwest National Primate Research Center, San Antonio, Texas, USA.
(6)New England Primate Research Center, Harvard University, Southborough,
Massachusetts, USA; Division of Comparative Medicine, Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA.
(7)Division of Pulmonary, Allergy and Critical Care Medicine, Department of
Medicine, Clinical Biomarkers Laboratory, Emory University, Atlanta, Georgia,
USA. dpjones@emory.edu.

Common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) are an important NHP model for the study of
human aging and age-related diseases. However, the full potential of marmosets as
a research model has not been realized due to a lack of evidence-based,
standardized procedures for their captive management, especially regarding diet
and feeding husbandry. In the present study, we conducted a high-resolution
metabolomics analysis of plasma from marmosets from a 3-mo dietary crossover
study to determine whether significant metabolic differences occur with a
semisynthetic chemically defined (purified) diet as needed for controlled
nutrition research. Marmosets were fed a standard, diverse-ingredient diet,
followed by a semisynthetic purified diet, and then were switched back to the
standard diet. The standard diet used in this analysis was specific to the animal
facility, but it is similar in content to the diets currently used for other
marmoset colonies. High-resolution metabolomics of plasma with liquid
chromatography-mass spectrometry and bioinformatics was used to measure metabolic
differences. The concentration of the essential amino acids methionine,
leucine/isoleucine, lysine, and threonine were higher when marmosets were fed the
purified diet. In contrast, phenylalanine concentrations were higher during
exposure to the standard diet. In addition, metabolic pathway enrichment and
analysis revealed differences among metabolites associated with dopamine
metabolism and the carnitine shuttle. These results show that diet-associated
differences in metabolism occur in marmosets and suggest that additional
nutritional studies with detailed physiologic characterization are needed to
optimize standard and purified diets for common marmosets.


PMCID: PMC4783630
PMID: 27025803  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1075. Anim Cogn. 2016 Jul;19(4):813-8. doi: 10.1007/s10071-016-0980-7. Epub 2016 Mar
28.

Evaluation of third-party reciprocity by squirrel monkeys (Saimiri sciureus) and 
the question of mechanisms.

Anderson JR(1), Bucher B(2), Kuroshima H(2), Fujita K(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Kyoto University Graduate School of Letters,
Yoshida-honmachi, Sakyo, Kyoto, 606- 8501, Japan.
j.r.anderson@psy.bun.kyoto-u.ac.jp.
(2)Department of Psychology, Kyoto University Graduate School of Letters,
Yoshida-honmachi, Sakyo, Kyoto, 606- 8501, Japan.

Social evaluation during third-party interactions emerges early in human
ontogeny, and it has been shown in adult capuchin monkeys who witness violations 
of reciprocity in object exchanges: Monkeys were less inclined to accept food
from humans who refused to reciprocate with another human. A recent study
reporting similar evidence in marmoset monkeys raised the possibility that such
evaluations might be based on species' inherent cooperativeness. We tested a
species not renowned for cooperativeness-squirrel monkeys-using the procedure
used with marmosets and found a similar result. This finding rules out any
crucial role for cooperative tendencies in monkeys' responses to unfair
exchanges. We then tested squirrel monkeys using procedures more similar to those
used in the original study with capuchins. Squirrel monkeys again accepted food
less frequently from non-reciprocators, but unlike capuchins, they also strongly 
preferred reciprocators. We conclude that neither squirrel monkeys nor marmoset
monkeys engaged in emotional bookkeeping of the type that probably underlies
social evaluation in capuchin monkeys; instead, they employed one or more simple 
behavioral rules. Further comparative studies are required to clarify the
mechanisms underlying social evaluation processes across species.

DOI: 10.1007/s10071-016-0980-7 
PMID: 27021433  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

