

1075. Anim Cogn. 2016 Jul;19(4):813-8. doi: 10.1007/s10071-016-0980-7. Epub 2016 Mar
28.

Evaluation of third-party reciprocity by squirrel monkeys (Saimiri sciureus) and 
the question of mechanisms.

Anderson JR(1), Bucher B(2), Kuroshima H(2), Fujita K(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Kyoto University Graduate School of Letters,
Yoshida-honmachi, Sakyo, Kyoto, 606- 8501, Japan.
j.r.anderson@psy.bun.kyoto-u.ac.jp.
(2)Department of Psychology, Kyoto University Graduate School of Letters,
Yoshida-honmachi, Sakyo, Kyoto, 606- 8501, Japan.

Social evaluation during third-party interactions emerges early in human
ontogeny, and it has been shown in adult capuchin monkeys who witness violations 
of reciprocity in object exchanges: Monkeys were less inclined to accept food
from humans who refused to reciprocate with another human. A recent study
reporting similar evidence in marmoset monkeys raised the possibility that such
evaluations might be based on species' inherent cooperativeness. We tested a
species not renowned for cooperativeness-squirrel monkeys-using the procedure
used with marmosets and found a similar result. This finding rules out any
crucial role for cooperative tendencies in monkeys' responses to unfair
exchanges. We then tested squirrel monkeys using procedures more similar to those
used in the original study with capuchins. Squirrel monkeys again accepted food
less frequently from non-reciprocators, but unlike capuchins, they also strongly 
preferred reciprocators. We conclude that neither squirrel monkeys nor marmoset
monkeys engaged in emotional bookkeeping of the type that probably underlies
social evaluation in capuchin monkeys; instead, they employed one or more simple 
behavioral rules. Further comparative studies are required to clarify the
mechanisms underlying social evaluation processes across species.

DOI: 10.1007/s10071-016-0980-7 
PMID: 27021433  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1076. Anim Behav. 2016 Apr 1;114:69-79.

Inequity aversion strategies between marmosets are influenced by partner
familiarity and sex but not oxytocin.

Mustoe AC(1), Harnisch AM(2), Hochfelder B(2), Cavanaugh J(1), French JA(3).

Author information: 
(1)Callitrichid Research Center, University of Nebraska Omaha, Omaha, NE, USA;
Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska Omaha, Omaha, NE, USA.
(2)Callitrichid Research Center, University of Nebraska Omaha, Omaha, NE, USA.
(3)Callitrichid Research Center, University of Nebraska Omaha, Omaha, NE, USA;
Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska Omaha, Omaha, NE, USA;
Department of Biology, University of Nebraska Omaha, Omaha, NE, USA.

Cooperation among individuals depends, in large part, on a sense of fairness.
Many cooperating non-human primates (NHPs) show inequity aversion, (i.e.,
negative responses to unequal outcomes), and these responses toward inequity
likely evolved as a means to preserve the advantages of cooperative
relationships. However, marmosets (Callithrix spp.) tend to show little or no
inequity aversion, despite the high occurrence of prosociality and
cooperative-breeding in callitrichid monkeys. Oxytocin [OXT] has been implicated 
in a wide variety of social processes, but little is known about whether OXT
modulates inequity aversion toward others. We used a tray pulling task to
evaluate whether marmosets would donate superior rewards to their long-term
pairmate or an opposite-sex stranger following OXT, OXT antagonist, and saline
treatments. We found that marmosets show inequity aversion, and this inequity
aversion is socially- and sex-specific. Male marmosets show inequity aversion
toward their pairmates but not strangers, and female marmosets do not show
inequity aversion. OXT treatments did not significantly influence inequity
aversion in marmosets. While OXT may modulate prosocial preferences, the
motivations underlying cooperative relationships, such as inequity aversion, are 
multifaceted. More research is needed to evaluate the evolutionary origins,
biological processes, and social contexts that influence complex phenotypes like 
inequity aversion. Inequity aversion can differ within species in important and
distinct ways including between individuals who do and do not share a cooperative
relationship. Overall, these findings support the view that inequity aversion is 
an important behavioural strategy for the maintenance of cooperative
relationships.

DOI: 10.1016/j.anbehav.2016.01.025 
PMCID: PMC4802974
PMID: 27019514 

