

1076. Anim Behav. 2016 Apr 1;114:69-79.

Inequity aversion strategies between marmosets are influenced by partner
familiarity and sex but not oxytocin.

Mustoe AC(1), Harnisch AM(2), Hochfelder B(2), Cavanaugh J(1), French JA(3).

Author information: 
(1)Callitrichid Research Center, University of Nebraska Omaha, Omaha, NE, USA;
Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska Omaha, Omaha, NE, USA.
(2)Callitrichid Research Center, University of Nebraska Omaha, Omaha, NE, USA.
(3)Callitrichid Research Center, University of Nebraska Omaha, Omaha, NE, USA;
Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska Omaha, Omaha, NE, USA;
Department of Biology, University of Nebraska Omaha, Omaha, NE, USA.

Cooperation among individuals depends, in large part, on a sense of fairness.
Many cooperating non-human primates (NHPs) show inequity aversion, (i.e.,
negative responses to unequal outcomes), and these responses toward inequity
likely evolved as a means to preserve the advantages of cooperative
relationships. However, marmosets (Callithrix spp.) tend to show little or no
inequity aversion, despite the high occurrence of prosociality and
cooperative-breeding in callitrichid monkeys. Oxytocin [OXT] has been implicated 
in a wide variety of social processes, but little is known about whether OXT
modulates inequity aversion toward others. We used a tray pulling task to
evaluate whether marmosets would donate superior rewards to their long-term
pairmate or an opposite-sex stranger following OXT, OXT antagonist, and saline
treatments. We found that marmosets show inequity aversion, and this inequity
aversion is socially- and sex-specific. Male marmosets show inequity aversion
toward their pairmates but not strangers, and female marmosets do not show
inequity aversion. OXT treatments did not significantly influence inequity
aversion in marmosets. While OXT may modulate prosocial preferences, the
motivations underlying cooperative relationships, such as inequity aversion, are 
multifaceted. More research is needed to evaluate the evolutionary origins,
biological processes, and social contexts that influence complex phenotypes like 
inequity aversion. Inequity aversion can differ within species in important and
distinct ways including between individuals who do and do not share a cooperative
relationship. Overall, these findings support the view that inequity aversion is 
an important behavioural strategy for the maintenance of cooperative
relationships.

DOI: 10.1016/j.anbehav.2016.01.025 
PMCID: PMC4802974
PMID: 27019514 


1077. Exp Eye Res. 2016 May;146:196-205. doi: 10.1016/j.exer.2016.03.020. Epub 2016 Mar
25.

Edaravone is a free radical scavenger that protects against laser-induced
choroidal neovascularization in mice and common marmosets.

Masuda T(1), Shimazawa M(2), Takata S(1), Nakamura S(1), Tsuruma K(1), Hara H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Pharmacology, Department of Biofunctional Evaluation, Gifu
Pharmaceutical University, Gifu, Japan.
(2)Molecular Pharmacology, Department of Biofunctional Evaluation, Gifu
Pharmaceutical University, Gifu, Japan. Electronic address:
shimazawa@gifu-pu.ac.jp.

Choroidal neovascularization (CNV) is a main characteristic in exudative type of 
age-related macular degeneration (AMD). Our study aimed to evaluate the effects
of edaravone, a free radical scavenger on laser-induced CNV. CNV was induced by
laser photocoagulation to the subretinal choroidal area of mice and common
marmosets. Edaravone was administered either intraperitoneally twice a day for 2 
weeks or intravenously just once after laser photocoagulation. The effects of
edaravone on laser-induced CNV were evaluated by fundus fluorescein angiography, 
CNV area measurements, and the expression of 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal (4-HNE) modified
proteins, a marker of oxidative stress. Furthermore, the effects of edaravone on 
the production of H2O2-induced reactive oxygen species (ROS) and vascular
endothelial growth factor (VEGF)-induced cell proliferation were evaluated using 
human retinal pigment epithelium cells (ARPE-19) and human retinal microvascular 
endothelial cells, respectively. CNV areas in the edaravone-treated group were
significantly smaller in mice and common marmosets. The expression of 4-HNE
modified proteins was upregulated 3 h after laser photocoagulation, and
intravenously administered edaravone decreased it. In in vitro studies, edaravone
inhibited H2O2-induced ROS production and VEGF-induced cell proliferation. These 
findings suggest that edaravone may protect against laser-induced CNV by
inhibiting oxidative stress and endothelial cell proliferation.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exer.2016.03.020 
PMID: 27018216  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

