

1093. Sci Rep. 2016 Feb 26;6:22250. doi: 10.1038/srep22250.

Distinct Expression Patterns Of Causative Genes Responsible For Hereditary
Progressive Hearing Loss In Non-Human Primate Cochlea.

Hosoya M(1), Fujioka M(1), Ogawa K(1), Okano H(2).

Author information: 
(1)Keio University School of Medicine, Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Head
and Neck Surgery, 35 Shinanomachi Shinjyuku-ku Tokyo, 160-8582, Japan.
(2)Keio University School of Medicine, Department of Physiology, 35 Shinanomachi 
Shinjyuku-ku Tokyo, 160-8582, Japan.

Hearing impairment is the most frequent sensory deficit in humans. Deafness
genes, which harbor pathogenic mutations that have been identified in families
with hereditary hearing loss, are commonly expressed in the auditory end organ or
the cochlea and may contribute to normal hearing function, yet some of the mouse 
models carrying these mutations fail to recapitulate the hearing loss phenotype. 
In this study, we find that distinct expression patterns of those deafness genes 
in the cochlea of a non-human primate, the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). 
We examined 20 genes whose expression in the cochlea has already been reported.
The deafness genes GJB3, CRYM, GRHL2, DFNA5, and ATP6B1 were expressed in
marmoset cochleae in patterns different from those in mouse cochleae. Of note,
all those genes are causative for progressive hearing loss in humans, but not in 
mice. The other tested genes, including the deafness gene COCH, in which mutation
recapitulates deafness in mice, were expressed in a similar manner in both
species. The result suggests that the discrepancy in the expression between
rodents and primates may account for the phenotypic difference. This limitation
of the rodent models can be bypassed by using non-human primate models such as
the marmoset.

DOI: 10.1038/srep22250 
PMCID: PMC4768099
PMID: 26915689  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1094. Appl Anim Behav Sci. 2016 Jan;174:128-136.

The long-term impact of infant rearing background on the affective state of adult
common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Ash H(1), Buchanan-Smith HM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Behaviour and Evolution Research Group and Scottish Primate Research Group,
Psychology, School of Natural Sciences, University of Stirling, Scotland, United 
Kingdom.

Early life environment, including temporary family separation, can have a major
influence on affective state. Using a battery of tests, the current study
compared the performance of adult common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus), reared
as infants under 3 different conditions: family-reared twins, family-reared
animals from triplet litters where only 2 remain (2stays) and supplementary fed
triplets. No significant differences were found in latency to approach and obtain
food from a human or a novel object between rearing conditions, suggesting no
effect on neophobia. There were no differences in cognitive bias task acquisition
time, or proportion of responses to each ambiguous probe. Very minor differences 
were found in response to the probes, with only supplementary fed marmosets
making fewer responses to the middle probe, compared to the probe nearest the
rewarded stimuli. Similarly, in a test for anhedonia, no difference was found
between rearing conditions in consumption of milkshake at different
concentrations. There was just one very small difference in reward motivation,
with only supplementary fed triplets demonstrating a lack of preference for
milkshake over water at the lowest concentration. This consistent pattern of
results suggests that the supplementary feeding of large litters of marmosets at 
this facility did not have a major effect on welfare, and is unlikely to
influence performance in reward-related scientific tasks. Therefore, while family
separation is not recommended, this particular practice should be used if it is
necessary, such as to reduce infant mortality. Regular positive interactions with
humans are also encouraged, to reduce fear and improve welfare of marmosets kept 
in captivity.

DOI: 10.1016/j.applanim.2015.10.009 
PMCID: PMC4727505
PMID: 26912940 

