

110. J Neural Eng. 2021 Jul 21;18(4). doi: 10.1088/1741-2552/ac115c.

Chronic recordings from the marmoset motor cortex reveals modulation of neural
firing and local field potentials overlap with macaques.

Mylavarapu R(1), Prins NW(2), Pohlmeyer EA(3), Shoup AM(1), Debnath S(4), Geng
S(5), Sanchez JC(6), Schwartz O(7), Prasad A(1)(8).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, University of Miami, Coral Gables, FL
United States of America.
(2)Department of Electrical and Information Engineering, University of Ruhuna,
Galle, Sri Lanka.
(3)Applied Physics Laboratory, Johns Hopkins University, Laurel, MD, United
States of America.
(4)Institute of Bioelectronic Medicine, Feinstein Institutes for Medical
Research, Manhasset, NY, United States of America.
(5)Institute for Data Science and Computing, University of Miami, Coral Gables,
FL, United States of America.
(6)Battelle, Columbus, OH, United States of America.
(7)Department of Computer Science, University of Miami, Coral Gables, FL, United 
States of America.
(8)The Miami Project to Cure Paralysis, University of Miami, Miami, FL United
States of America.

Objective.The common marmoset has been increasingly used in neural interfacing
studies due to its smaller size, easier handling, and faster breeding compared to
Old World non-human primate (NHP) species. While assessment of cortical anatomy
in marmosets has shown strikingly similar layout to macaques, comprehensive
assessment of electrophysiological properties underlying forelimb reaching
movements in this bridge species does not exist. The objective of this study is
to characterize electrophysiological properties of signals recorded from the
marmoset primary motor cortex (M1) during a reach task and compare with larger
NHP models such that this smaller NHP model can be used in behavioral neural
interfacing studies.Approach and main results.Neuronal firing rates and local
field potentials (LFPs) were chronically recorded from M1 in three adult, male
marmosets. Firing rates, mu + beta and high gamma frequency bands of LFPs were
evaluated for modulation with respect to movement. Firing rate and regularity of 
neurons of the marmoset M1 were similar to that reported in macaques with a
subset of neurons showing selectivity to movement direction. Movement phases
(rest vs move) was classified from both neural spiking and LFPs. Microelectrode
arrays provide the ability to sample small regions of the motor cortex to drive
brain-machine interfaces (BMIs). The results demonstrate that marmosets are a
robust bridge species for behavioral neuroscience studies with motor cortical
electrophysiological signals recorded from microelectrode arrays that are similar
to Old World NHPs.Significance. As marmosets represent an interesting step
between rodent and macaque models, successful demonstration that neuron
modulation in marmoset motor cortex is analogous to reports in macaques
illustrates the utility of marmosets as a viable species for BMI studies.

© 2021 IOP Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1088/1741-2552/ac115c 
PMCID: PMC8612807
PMID: 34225263  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


111. Front Immunol. 2021 Jun 18;12:683026. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2021.683026. eCollection
2021.

Microglial Morphology Across Distantly Related Species: Phylogenetic,
Environmental and Age Influences on Microglia Reactivity and Surveillance States.

Carvalho-Paulo D(1), Bento Torres Neto J(1)(2), Filho CS(1), de Oliveira TCG(1), 
de Sousa AA(1), Dos Reis RR(1), Dos Santos ZA(1), de Lima CM(1), de Oliveira
MA(1), Said NM(1), Freitas SF(1), Sosthenes MCK(1), Gomes GF(1), Henrique EP(3), 
Pereira PDC(3), de Siqueira LS(3), de Melo MAD(3), Guerreiro Diniz C(3),
Magalhães NGM(3), Diniz JAP(4), Vasconcelos PFDC(5)(6), Diniz DG(1)(4), Anthony
DC(7), Sherry DF(8), Brites D(9)(10), Picanço Diniz CW(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Investigações em Neurodegeneração e Infecção, Instituto de
Ciências Biológicas, Hospital Universitário João de Barros Barreto, Universidade 
Federal do Pará, Belém, Brazil.
(2)Faculdade de Fisioterapia e Terapia Ocupacional, Universidade Federal do Pará,
Belém, Brazil.
(3)Laboratório de Biologia Molecular e Neuroecologia, Instituto Federal de
Educação Ciência e Tecnologia do Pará, Bragança, Brazil.
(4)Laboratório de Microscopia Eletrônica, Instituto Evandro Chagas, Belém,
Brazil.
(5)Dep. de Arbovirologia e Febres Hemorrágicas, Instituto Evandro Chagas, Belém, 
Brazil.
(6)Departamento de Patologia, Universidade do Estado do Pará, Belém, Brazil.
(7)Department of Pharmacology, University of Oxford, Oxford, United Kingdom.
(8)Department of Psychology, Advanced Facility for Avian Research, University of 
Western Ontario, London, ON, Canada.
(9)Research Institute for Medicines (iMed.ULisboa), Faculty of Pharmacy,
Universidade de Lisboa, Lisbon, Portugal.
(10)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences and Medicines, Faculty of Pharmacy,
Universidade de Lisboa, Lisbon, Portugal.

Microglial immunosurveillance of the brain parenchyma to detect local
perturbations in homeostasis, in all species, results in the adoption of a
spectrum of morphological changes that reflect functional adaptations. Here, we
review the contribution of these changes in microglia morphology in distantly
related species, in homeostatic and non-homeostatic conditions, with three
principal goals (1): to review the phylogenetic influences on the morphological
diversity of microglia during homeostasis (2); to explore the impact of
homeostatic perturbations (Dengue virus challenge) in distantly related species
(Mus musculus and Callithrix penicillata) as a proxy for the differential immune 
response in small and large brains; and (3) to examine the influences of
environmental enrichment and aging on the plasticity of the microglial
morphological response following an immunological challenge (neurotropic
arbovirus infection). Our findings reveal that the differences in microglia
morphology across distantly related species under homeostatic condition cannot be
attributed to the phylogenetic origin of the species. However, large and small
brains, under similar non-homeostatic conditions, display differential microglial
morphological responses, and we argue that age and environment interact to affect
the microglia morphology after an immunological challenge; in particular, mice
living in an enriched environment exhibit a more efficient immune response to the
virus resulting in earlier removal of the virus and earlier return to the
homeostatic morphological phenotype of microglia than it is observed in sedentary
mice.

Copyright © 2021 Carvalho-Paulo, Bento Torres Neto, Filho, de Oliveira, de Sousa,
dos Reis, dos Santos, de Lima, de Oliveira, Said, Freitas, Sosthenes, Gomes,
Henrique, Pereira, de Siqueira, de Melo, Guerreiro Diniz, Magalhães, Diniz,
Vasconcelos, Diniz, Anthony, Sherry, Brites and Picanço Diniz.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2021.683026 
PMCID: PMC8250867
PMID: 34220831  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.

