

1112. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2016 Jan 1;57(1):66-80. doi: 10.1167/iovs.15-17962.

M-Type Pyruvate Kinase Isoforms and Lactate Dehydrogenase A in the Mammalian
Retina: Metabolic Implications.

Casson RJ(1), Wood JP(1), Han G(1), Kittipassorn T(2), Peet DJ(3), Chidlow G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Ophthalmic Research Laboratories, Hanson Institute Centre for Neurological
Diseases, Adelaide, South Australia, Australia 2South Australian Institute of
Ophthalmology, University of Adelaide, Adelaide, South Australia, Australia.
(2)South Australian Institute of Ophthalmology, University of Adelaide, Adelaide,
South Australia, Australia 3School of Biological Science, University of Adelaide,
Adelaide, South Australia, Australia.
(3)School of Biological Science, University of Adelaide, Adelaide, South
Australia, Australia.

PURPOSE: Like cancer cells, photoreceptor cells produce lactate aerobically,
requiring lactate dehydrogenase A (LDH-A). Cancer cells also use glycolytic
intermediates for biosynthesis. The molecular switch controlling glycolytic flow 
is thought to be an isoenzyme of pyruvate kinase (PKM2). Here, we determined the 
expression and localization of PKM2 and LDH-A in mammalian retina and make
comparisons with the brain.
METHODS: Single- and double-labeling immunohistochemistry for PKM2, pyruvate
kinase M1 (PKM1), and LDH-A were performed using retinal sections from C57BL/6
mice, Sprague-Dawley rats, rabbits, marmosets, and humans. Pyruvate kinase M1 and
PKM2 mRNA and protein expression levels were quantified in rodent retina and
brain by using qPCR and immunoblotting. The quaternary forms of PKM2 in rat
retina were also determined.
RESULTS: Pyruvate kinase M2 was present in some glial cells and rod and cone
photoreceptors in the retina of all species but was exclusively localized to glia
in the brain. Pyruvate kinase M1 was confined to neurons in the retina and brain.
Lactate dehydrogenase A was principally found in photoreceptors and inner portion
of the avascular rabbit retina. Western blotting and qPCR confirmed high levels
of PKM2 and LDH-A in the retina. There was a 6- to 9-fold greater expression of
PKM2 mRNA in the rodent retina than in the brain. Both the dimeric (inactive,
biosynthesis-driving form) and the active tetrameric (glycolytic-driving) forms
of PKM2 were present in retina but not in brain.
CONCLUSIONS: Mammalian photoreceptors contain dimeric and tetrameric PKM2 and
LDH-A. This is consistent with the ability to switch between energy production
and biosynthesis like a proliferating tissue, possibly due to demands of opsin
synthesis.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.15-17962 
PMID: 26780311  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1113. Psychoneuroendocrinology. 2016 Apr;66:22-30. doi: 10.1016/j.psyneuen.2015.12.027.
Epub 2015 Dec 30.

Oxytocin modulates behavioral and physiological responses to a stressor in
marmoset monkeys.

Cavanaugh J(1), Carp SB(2), Rock CM(2), French JA(3).

Author information: 
(1)Callitrichid Research Center, Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska
at Omaha, United States. Electronic address: jonryancavanaug@unomaha.edu.
(2)Callitrichid Research Center, Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska
at Omaha, United States.
(3)Callitrichid Research Center, Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska
at Omaha, United States; Department of Biology, University of Nebraska at Omaha, 
United States.

Social isolation is a major source of stress and can lead to activation of the
hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis. The presence of a close social partner
can reduce the magnitude of the HPA-axis response during a stressor, a phenomenon
known as social buffering. The oxytocin (OXT) system has been identified as one
candidate for mediating social buffering due to its role in the facilitation of
social bonding and the expression of prosocial behavior. The goal of the present 
study was to determine whether the OXT system contributes to social buffering of 
HPA-axis activity in response to stressor exposure in marmoset monkeys
(Callithrix jacchus). Male and female marmosets experienced a standardized
psychogenic stressor with and without their long-term mate under OXT-treatments
(Pro(8)-OXT, Leu(8)-OXT, OXT antagonist, and saline); we assessed HPA-axis
activity by measuring urinary cortisol across the stressor. We found that
blocking, but not augmenting, the OXT system altered patterns of cortisol and
proximity behavior in response to a stressor. We demonstrated that (1) the
presence of a mate during a stressor significantly attenuated HPA-axis activity
in female, but not male, marmosets; (2) male, but not female, marmosets treated
with an OXT antagonist had significantly higher HPA-axis activity across the
stressor than when they were treated with saline, suggesting that the OXT system 
may reduce the stressor-induced rise in cortisol levels; (3) male and female
marmosets treated with an OXT antagonist spent significantly less time in close
proximity to their mate during the first 30 min of the stressor than when they
were treated with saline, suggesting that the OXT system may be important for the
expression of partner-seeking behavior during a stressor. Thus, the OXT system
and social context differentially influenced how the HPA-axis responded to a
stressor in male and female marmosets, and may modulate HPA-axis activity by
promoting the expression of proximity behavior with a close social partner.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.psyneuen.2015.12.027 
PMCID: PMC6007987
PMID: 26771946  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

