

1113. Psychoneuroendocrinology. 2016 Apr;66:22-30. doi: 10.1016/j.psyneuen.2015.12.027.
Epub 2015 Dec 30.

Oxytocin modulates behavioral and physiological responses to a stressor in
marmoset monkeys.

Cavanaugh J(1), Carp SB(2), Rock CM(2), French JA(3).

Author information: 
(1)Callitrichid Research Center, Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska
at Omaha, United States. Electronic address: jonryancavanaug@unomaha.edu.
(2)Callitrichid Research Center, Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska
at Omaha, United States.
(3)Callitrichid Research Center, Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska
at Omaha, United States; Department of Biology, University of Nebraska at Omaha, 
United States.

Social isolation is a major source of stress and can lead to activation of the
hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis. The presence of a close social partner
can reduce the magnitude of the HPA-axis response during a stressor, a phenomenon
known as social buffering. The oxytocin (OXT) system has been identified as one
candidate for mediating social buffering due to its role in the facilitation of
social bonding and the expression of prosocial behavior. The goal of the present 
study was to determine whether the OXT system contributes to social buffering of 
HPA-axis activity in response to stressor exposure in marmoset monkeys
(Callithrix jacchus). Male and female marmosets experienced a standardized
psychogenic stressor with and without their long-term mate under OXT-treatments
(Pro(8)-OXT, Leu(8)-OXT, OXT antagonist, and saline); we assessed HPA-axis
activity by measuring urinary cortisol across the stressor. We found that
blocking, but not augmenting, the OXT system altered patterns of cortisol and
proximity behavior in response to a stressor. We demonstrated that (1) the
presence of a mate during a stressor significantly attenuated HPA-axis activity
in female, but not male, marmosets; (2) male, but not female, marmosets treated
with an OXT antagonist had significantly higher HPA-axis activity across the
stressor than when they were treated with saline, suggesting that the OXT system 
may reduce the stressor-induced rise in cortisol levels; (3) male and female
marmosets treated with an OXT antagonist spent significantly less time in close
proximity to their mate during the first 30 min of the stressor than when they
were treated with saline, suggesting that the OXT system may be important for the
expression of partner-seeking behavior during a stressor. Thus, the OXT system
and social context differentially influenced how the HPA-axis responded to a
stressor in male and female marmosets, and may modulate HPA-axis activity by
promoting the expression of proximity behavior with a close social partner.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.psyneuen.2015.12.027 
PMCID: PMC6007987
PMID: 26771946  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1114. Lab Anim Res. 2015 Dec;31(4):155-65. doi: 10.5625/lar.2015.31.4.155. Epub 2015
Dec 22.

Modeling Parkinson's disease in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus):
overview of models, methods, and animal care.

Yun JW(1), Ahn JB(2), Kang BC(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Animal Research, Biomedical Research Institute,
Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul, Korea.
(2)Department of Experimental Animal Research, Biomedical Research Institute,
Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul, Korea.; Graduate School of
Translational Medicine, Seoul National University College of Medicine, Seoul,
Korea.
(3)Department of Experimental Animal Research, Biomedical Research Institute,
Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul, Korea.; Graduate School of
Translational Medicine, Seoul National University College of Medicine, Seoul,
Korea.; Designed Animal Research Center, Institute of GreenBio Science
Technology, Seoul National University, Pyeongchang-gun, Gangwon, Korea.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is a small-bodied, popular New World
monkey and is used widely in reproductive biology, neuroscience, and drug
development, due to its comparative ease of handling, high reproductive
efficiency, and its unique behavioral characters. In this review, we discuss the 
marmoset models in Parkinson's disease (PD), which is a neurological movement
disorder primarily resulting from a degeneration of dopaminergic neurons with
clinical features of tremor, rigidity, postural instability, and akinesia. The
most common PD models involve the administration of
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) or 6-hydroxydopamine to study
the pathogenesis and to evaluate novel therapies. Following the systemic or local
administration of these neurotoxins, the marmosets with very severe Parkinson's
symptoms are recommended to be placed in an intensive care unit with artificial
feeding to increase survival rate. All procedures with MPTP should be conducted
in a special room with enclosed cages under negative-pressure by trained
researchers with personal protection. Behavioral tests are conducted to provide
an external measure of the brain pathology. Along with several biomarkers,
including α-synuclein and DJ-1, non-invasive neuroimaging techniques such as
positron emission tomography and magnetic resonance imaging are used to evaluate 
the functional changes associated with PD. With the recent growing interest in
potential and novel therapies such as stem cell and gene therapy for PD in Korea,
the marmoset can be considered as a suitable non-human primate model in PD
research to bridge the gap between rodent studies and clinical applications.

DOI: 10.5625/lar.2015.31.4.155 
PMCID: PMC4707143
PMID: 26755918 

