

1116. Physiol Behav. 2016 Mar 1;155:242-9. doi: 10.1016/j.physbeh.2015.12.023. Epub
2015 Dec 24.

Circadian activity rhythm in pre-pubertal and pubertal marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus) living in family groups.

Melo PR(1), Gonçalves BS(2), Menezes AA(1), Azevedo CV(3).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Cronobiologia, Programa de Pós-graduação em Psicobiologia,
Departamento de Fisiologia, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Norte, Natal,
RN, Brazil.
(2)Laboratório de Cronobiologia, Programa de Pós-graduação em Psicobiologia,
Departamento de Fisiologia, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Norte, Natal,
RN, Brazil; Instituto Federal Sudeste de Minas Gerais, Campus Barbacena, MG,
Brazil.
(3)Laboratório de Cronobiologia, Programa de Pós-graduação em Psicobiologia,
Departamento de Fisiologia, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Norte, Natal,
RN, Brazil. Electronic address: carolina@cb.ufrn.br.

In marmosets, a phase advance was observed in activity onset in pubertal animals 
living in captivity under semi-natural conditions which had stronger correlation 
with the times of sunrise over the course of the year than the age of the animal.
In order to evaluate the effect of puberty on the circadian activity rhythm in
male and female marmosets living in family groups in controlled lighting
conditions, the activity of 5 dyads of twins (4 ♀/♂ and 1 ♂/♂) and their
respective parents was continuously monitored by actiwatches between the 4th and 
12th months of age. The families were kept under LD 12:12 h with constant
humidity and temperature. The onset of puberty was identified by monitoring fecal
steroids. Juveniles showed higher totals of daily activity and differences in the
daily distribution of activity in relation to parents, in which the bimodal
profile was characterized by higher levels in evening activity in relation to
morning activity. Regarding the phase, the activity onset and offset, occurred
later in relation to parents. After entering puberty, the activity onset and
offset occurred later and there was an increase in total daily activity. On the
other hand, when assessing the effect of sex, only females showed a delay in the 
activity offset and an increase in total daily activity. Therefore, the circadian
activity rhythm in marmosets has peculiar characteristics in the juvenile stage
in relation to the total of daily activity, the onset and offset of the active
phase, and the distribution of activity during this phase. Besides, the entering 
puberty was associated with a phase delay and increase on total daily activity,
with differences between sexes, possibly due to hormonal influences and/or social
modulation on rhythm.

DOI: 10.1016/j.physbeh.2015.12.023 
PMID: 26724713  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1117. Am J Pathol. 2016 Mar;186(3):630-8. doi: 10.1016/j.ajpath.2015.10.025. Epub 2015 
Dec 24.

An Acute Immune Response to Middle East Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus
Replication Contributes to Viral Pathogenicity.

Baseler LJ(1), Falzarano D(2), Scott DP(3), Rosenke R(3), Thomas T(2), Munster
VJ(2), Feldmann H(2), de Wit E(4).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Virology, Division of Intramural Research, National Institute of
Allergy and Infectious Diseases, NIH, Rocky Mountain Laboratories, Hamilton,
Montana; Department of Comparative Pathobiology, Purdue University, West
Lafayette, Indiana.
(2)Laboratory of Virology, Division of Intramural Research, National Institute of
Allergy and Infectious Diseases, NIH, Rocky Mountain Laboratories, Hamilton,
Montana.
(3)Rocky Mountain Veterinary Branch, Division of Intramural Research, National
Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, NIH, Rocky Mountain Laboratories,
Hamilton, Montana.
(4)Laboratory of Virology, Division of Intramural Research, National Institute of
Allergy and Infectious Diseases, NIH, Rocky Mountain Laboratories, Hamilton,
Montana. Electronic address: emmie.dewit@nih.gov.

Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV) was first identified in a
human with severe pneumonia in 2012. Since then, infections have been detected in
>1500 individuals, with disease severity ranging from asymptomatic to severe,
fatal pneumonia. To elucidate the pathogenesis of this virus and investigate
mechanisms underlying disease severity variation in the absence of autopsy data, 
a rhesus macaque and common marmoset model of MERS-CoV disease were analyzed.
Rhesus macaques developed mild disease, and common marmosets exhibited moderate
to severe, potentially lethal, disease. Both nonhuman primate species exhibited
respiratory clinical signs after inoculation, which were more severe and of
longer duration in the marmosets, and developed bronchointerstitial pneumonia. In
marmosets, the pneumonia was more extensive, with development of severe airway
lesions. Quantitative analysis showed significantly higher levels of pulmonary
neutrophil infiltration and higher amounts of pulmonary viral antigen in
marmosets. Pulmonary expression of the MERS-CoV receptor, dipeptidyl peptidase 4,
was similar in marmosets and macaques. These results suggest that increased virus
replication and the local immune response to MERS-CoV infection likely play a
role in pulmonary pathology severity. Together, the rhesus macaque and common
marmoset models of MERS-CoV span the wide range of disease severity reported in
MERS-CoV-infected humans, which will aid in investigating MERS-CoV disease
pathogenesis.

Copyright © 2016 American Society for Investigative Pathology. Published by
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajpath.2015.10.025 
PMCID: PMC4816712 [Available on 2017-03-01]
PMID: 26724387  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

