

1121. Front Neurosci. 2015 Dec 10;9:459. doi: 10.3389/fnins.2015.00459. eCollection
2015.

Mirror Neurons in a New World Monkey, Common Marmoset.

Suzuki W(1), Banno T(2), Miyakawa N(2), Abe H(3), Goda N(4), Ichinohe N(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ultrastructural Research, National Institute of Neuroscience,
National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry Tokyo, Japan ; Ichinohe Neural System
Group, Lab for Molecular Analysis of Higher Brain Functions, RIKEN Brain Science 
Institute Saitama, Japan.
(2)Department of Ultrastructural Research, National Institute of Neuroscience,
National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry Tokyo, Japan.
(3)Ichinohe Neural System Group, Lab for Molecular Analysis of Higher Brain
Functions, RIKEN Brain Science Institute Saitama, Japan.
(4)Division of Sensory and Cognitive Information, National Institute for
Physiological Sciences Aichi, Japan ; Department of Physiological Sciences, The
Graduate University for Advanced Studies (Sokendai) Aichi, Japan.

Mirror neurons respond when executing a motor act and when observing others'
similar act. So far, mirror neurons have been found only in macaques, humans, and
songbirds. To investigate the degree of phylogenetic specialization of mirror
neurons during the course of their evolution, we determined whether mirror
neurons with similar properties to macaques occur in a New World monkey, the
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). The ventral premotor cortex (PMv), where
mirror neurons have been reported in macaques, is difficult to identify in
marmosets, since no sulcal landmarks exist in the frontal cortex. We addressed
this problem using "in vivo" connection imaging methods. That is, we first
identified cells responsive to others' grasping action in a clear landmark, the
superior temporal sulcus (STS), under anesthesia, and injected fluorescent
tracers into the region. By fluorescence stereomicroscopy, we identified clusters
of labeled cells in the ventrolateral frontal cortex, which were confirmed to be 
within the ventrolateral frontal cortex including PMv after sacrifice. We next
implanted electrodes into the ventrolateral frontal cortex and STS and recorded
single/multi-units under an awake condition. As a result, we found neurons in the
ventrolateral frontal cortex with characteristic "mirror" properties quite
similar to those in macaques. This finding suggests that mirror neurons occur in 
a common ancestor of New and Old World monkeys and its common properties are
preserved during the course of primate evolution.

DOI: 10.3389/fnins.2015.00459 
PMCID: PMC4674550
PMID: 26696817 


1122. J Neuropathol Exp Neurol. 2016 Jan;75(1):86-98.

Elevated Expression of the Cerebrospinal Fluid Disease Markers Chromogranin A and
Clusterin in Astrocytes of Multiple Sclerosis White Matter Lesions.

van Luijn MM, van Meurs M, Stoop MP, Verbraak E, Wierenga-Wolf AF, Melief MJ,
Kreft KL, Verdijk RM, 't Hart BA, Luider TM, Laman JD, Hintzen RQ.

Using proteomics, we previously identified chromogranin A (CgA) and clusterin
(CLU) as disease-related proteins in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of patients
with multiple sclerosis (MS). CgA and CLU are involved in cell survival and are
implicated in neurodegenerative disorders and may also have roles in MS
pathophysiology. We investigated CgA and CLU expression in lesions and
nonlesional regions in postmortem brains of MS patients and controls and in the
brains of marmosets with experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis. By
quantitative PCR, mRNA levels of CgA and CLU were elevated in white matter but
not in grey matter of MS patients. In situ analyses showed greater expression of 
CgA and CLU in white matter lesions than in normal-appearing regions in MS
patients and in the marmosets, primarily in or adjacent to perivascular spaces
and inflammatory infiltrates. Both proteins were expressed by glial fibrillary
acidic protein-positive astrocytes. CgA was more localized in astrocytic
processes and endfeet surrounding blood vessels and was abundant in the
superficial glia limitans and ependyma, 2 CSF-brain borders. Increased expression
of CgA and CLU in reactive astrocytes in MS white matter lesions supports a role 
for these molecules as neuro-inflammatory mediators and their potential as CSF
markers of active pathological processes in MS patients.

DOI: 10.1093/jnen/nlv004 
PMID: 26683597  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

