

1128. Front Psychiatry. 2015 Nov 30;6:160. doi: 10.3389/fpsyt.2015.00160. eCollection
2015.

Endocrine and Cognitive Adaptations to Cope with Stress in Immature Common
Marmosets (Callithrix jacchus): Sex and Age Matter.

de Sousa MB(1), Galvão AC(2), Sales CJ(2), de Castro DC(2), Galvão-Coelho NL(3).

Author information: 
(1)Brain Institute, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Norte , Natal , Brazil.
(2)Graduate Program in Psychobiology, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Norte
, Natal , Brazil.
(3)Department of Physiology, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Norte , Natal 
, Brazil.

Phenotypic sex differences in primates are associated with body differentiation
during the early stages of life, expressed in both physiological and behavioral
features. Hormones seem to play a pivotal role in creating a range of responses
to meet environmental and social demands, resulting in better reactions to cope
with challenges to survival and reproduction. Steroid hormones actively
participate in neuroplasticity and steroids from both gonads and neurons seem to 
be involved in behavioral modulation in primates. Indirect evidence suggests the 
participation of sexual steroids in dimorphism of the stress response in common
marmosets. This species is an important experimental model in psychiatry, and we 
found a dual profile for cortisol in the transition from juvenile to subadult,
with females showing higher levels. Immature males and females at 6 and 9 months 
of age moved alone from the family group to a new cage, over a 21-day period,
expressed distinct patterns of cortisol variation with respect to range and
duration of response. Additional evidence showed that at 12 months of age, males 
and females buffered the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis during chronic
stress. Moreover, chronic stressed juvenile marmoset males showed better
cognitive performance in working memory tests and motivation when compared to
those submitted to short-term stress living in family groups. Thus, as cortisol
profile seems to be sexually dimorphic before adulthood, age and sex are critical
variables to consider in approaches that require immature marmosets in their
experimental protocols. Moreover, available cognitive tests should be scrutinized
to allow better investigation of cognitive traits in this species.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyt.2015.00160 
PMCID: PMC4663272
PMID: 26648876 


1129. Neurosci Res. 2016 May;106:55-61. doi: 10.1016/j.neures.2015.11.006. Epub 2015
Nov 28.

α-Synuclein aggregation in the olfactory bulb of middle-aged common marmoset.

Kobayashi R(1), Takahashi-Fujigasaki J(2), Shiozawa S(3), Hara-Miyauchi C(4),
Inoue T(5), Okano HJ(4), Sasaki E(6), Okano H(7).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, Shinjuku, Tokyo,
Japan.
(2)Department of Neuropathology, Brain Bank for Aging Research, Tokyo
Metropolitan Institute of Gerontology, Itabashi-ku, Tokyo, Japan.
(3)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, Shinjuku, Tokyo,
Japan; RIKEN Brain Science Institute Laboratory for Marmoset Neural Architecture,
Wako-shi, Saitama, Japan.
(4)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, Shinjuku, Tokyo,
Japan; Division of Regenerative Medicine, Jikei University School of Medicine,
Minato-ku, Tokyo, Japan.
(5)Central Institute for Experimental Animals, Kawasaki, Kanagawa, Japan.
(6)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, Shinjuku, Tokyo,
Japan; RIKEN Brain Science Institute Laboratory for Marmoset Neural Architecture,
Wako-shi, Saitama, Japan; Central Institute for Experimental Animals, Kawasaki,
Kanagawa, Japan.
(7)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, Shinjuku, Tokyo,
Japan. Electronic address: hidokano@a2.keio.jp.

The synaptic protein α-synuclein has been identified as a major component of Lewy
bodies, a pathological hallmark of Parkinson's disease (PD). Prior to the
formation of Lewy bodies, mislocalization and aggregation of the α-synuclein in
brain tissue is frequently observed in various neurodegenerative diseases.
Aberrant accumulation and localization of α-synuclein are also observed in the
aging human brain, for which reason aging is regarded as a risk factor for
neurodegenerative disease. To investigate changes in α-synuclein properties in
the aging brain, we compared α-synuclein immunoreactivity in brain tissue of
young (2-years-old) and middle-aged (6-years-old) common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus). Our analyses revealed marked changes in α-synuclein immunoreactivity in
the olfactory bulb of common marmosets of these age cohorts. Perikaryal
α-synuclein aggregations were formed in the olfactory bulb in middle-aged
animals. We also observed signals of α-synuclein accumulation in hippocampus in
this cohort; however, unlike in the olfactory bulb, hippocampal α-synuclein
signals were localized in the synaptic terminals. We did not observe either of
these features in younger marmosets, which suggest that aging may play a role in 
these phenomena. Our results using common marmoset brain corresponded with the
observation that the α-synuclein aggregations were first occurred from olfactory 
bulb in human normal aged and PD brain. Therefore, common marmoset is expected as
useful model for α-synuclein pathology.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier Ireland Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neures.2015.11.006 
PMID: 26643383  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

