

1129. Neurosci Res. 2016 May;106:55-61. doi: 10.1016/j.neures.2015.11.006. Epub 2015
Nov 28.

α-Synuclein aggregation in the olfactory bulb of middle-aged common marmoset.

Kobayashi R(1), Takahashi-Fujigasaki J(2), Shiozawa S(3), Hara-Miyauchi C(4),
Inoue T(5), Okano HJ(4), Sasaki E(6), Okano H(7).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, Shinjuku, Tokyo,
Japan.
(2)Department of Neuropathology, Brain Bank for Aging Research, Tokyo
Metropolitan Institute of Gerontology, Itabashi-ku, Tokyo, Japan.
(3)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, Shinjuku, Tokyo,
Japan; RIKEN Brain Science Institute Laboratory for Marmoset Neural Architecture,
Wako-shi, Saitama, Japan.
(4)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, Shinjuku, Tokyo,
Japan; Division of Regenerative Medicine, Jikei University School of Medicine,
Minato-ku, Tokyo, Japan.
(5)Central Institute for Experimental Animals, Kawasaki, Kanagawa, Japan.
(6)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, Shinjuku, Tokyo,
Japan; RIKEN Brain Science Institute Laboratory for Marmoset Neural Architecture,
Wako-shi, Saitama, Japan; Central Institute for Experimental Animals, Kawasaki,
Kanagawa, Japan.
(7)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, Shinjuku, Tokyo,
Japan. Electronic address: hidokano@a2.keio.jp.

The synaptic protein α-synuclein has been identified as a major component of Lewy
bodies, a pathological hallmark of Parkinson's disease (PD). Prior to the
formation of Lewy bodies, mislocalization and aggregation of the α-synuclein in
brain tissue is frequently observed in various neurodegenerative diseases.
Aberrant accumulation and localization of α-synuclein are also observed in the
aging human brain, for which reason aging is regarded as a risk factor for
neurodegenerative disease. To investigate changes in α-synuclein properties in
the aging brain, we compared α-synuclein immunoreactivity in brain tissue of
young (2-years-old) and middle-aged (6-years-old) common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus). Our analyses revealed marked changes in α-synuclein immunoreactivity in
the olfactory bulb of common marmosets of these age cohorts. Perikaryal
α-synuclein aggregations were formed in the olfactory bulb in middle-aged
animals. We also observed signals of α-synuclein accumulation in hippocampus in
this cohort; however, unlike in the olfactory bulb, hippocampal α-synuclein
signals were localized in the synaptic terminals. We did not observe either of
these features in younger marmosets, which suggest that aging may play a role in 
these phenomena. Our results using common marmoset brain corresponded with the
observation that the α-synuclein aggregations were first occurred from olfactory 
bulb in human normal aged and PD brain. Therefore, common marmoset is expected as
useful model for α-synuclein pathology.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier Ireland Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neures.2015.11.006 
PMID: 26643383  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1130. J Sex Med. 2015 Dec;12(12):2256-66. doi: 10.1111/jsm.13068. Epub 2015 Dec 4.

Flibanserin-Stimulated Partner Grooming Reflects Brain Metabolism Changes in
Female Marmosets.

Converse AK(1), Aubert Y(2)(3), Allers KA(4), Sommer B(4), Abbott DH(2)(5)(6).

Author information: 
(1)Waisman Center, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, USA.
(2)Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin-Madison,
Madison, WI, USA.
(3)Department of Biological and Medical Psychology, University of Bergen, Bergen,
Norway.
(4)Department of CNS Diseases, Boehringer Ingelheim, Biberach, Germany.
(5)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Wisconsin-Madison,
Madison, WI, USA.
(6)Endocrinology-Reproductive Physiology Training Program, University of
Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Female sexual interest and arousal disorder is personally
distressing for women. To better understand the mechanism of the candidate
therapeutic, flibanserin, we determined its effects on an index of brain glucose 
metabolism.
AIM: We hypothesized that chronic treatment with flibanserin would alter
metabolism in brain regions associated with serotonergic function and female
sexual behavior.
METHODS: In a crossover design, eight adult female common marmosets (Calithrix
jacchus) received daily flibanserin or vehicle. After 7-12 weeks of treatment,
the glucose metabolism radiotracer [(18) F]fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) was
administered to each female immediately prior to 30 minutes of interaction with
her male pairmate, after which females were anesthetized and imaged by positron
emission tomography. Whole-brain normalized images were analyzed with
anatomically defined regions of interest. Whole-brain voxelwise mapping was used 
to explore treatment effects. Correlations were examined between alterations in
metabolism and pairmate social grooming.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Changes in metabolism associated with flibanserin were
determined for dorsal raphe, medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), medial preoptic
area of hypothalamus (mPOA), ventromedial nucleus of hypothalamus, and field
cornu ammonis 1 (CA1) of the hippocampus.
RESULTS: In response to chronic flibanserin, metabolism in mPOA declined, and
this reduction correlated with increases in pairmate grooming. A cluster of
voxels in frontal cortico-limbic regions exhibited reduced metabolism in response
to flibanserin and overlapped with a voxel cluster in which reductions in
metabolism correlated with increases in pairmate grooming. Finally, reductions in
mPOA metabolism correlated with increases in metabolism in a cluster of voxels in
somatosensory cortex.
CONCLUSIONS: Taken together, these results suggest that flibanserin-induced
reductions in female mPOA neural activity increase intimate affiliative behavior 
with male pairmates.

© 2015 International Society for Sexual Medicine.

DOI: 10.1111/jsm.13068 
PMCID: PMC5681869
PMID: 26635207  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

