

1140. Front Behav Neurosci. 2015 Oct 14;9:251. doi: 10.3389/fnbeh.2015.00251.
eCollection 2015.

Marmosets treated with oxytocin are more socially attractive to their long-term
mate.

Cavanaugh J(1), Huffman MC(1), Harnisch AM(1), French JA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Callitrichid Research Center, Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska
Omaha Omaha, NE, USA.
(2)Callitrichid Research Center, Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska
Omaha Omaha, NE, USA ; Department of Biology, University of Nebraska Omaha Omaha,
NE, USA.

Adult male-female bonds are partly characterized by initiating and maintaining
close proximity with a social partner, as well as engaging in high levels of
affiliative and sociosexual behavior. Oxytocin (OXT), a neuromodulatory
nonapeptide, plays a critical role in the facilitation of social bonding and
prosocial behavior toward a social partner (Feldman, 2012). However, less
attention has been given to whether augmentation of OXT levels in an individual
alters others' perceptions and behavior toward an OXT-treated social partner. We 
examined social dynamics in well-established male-female pairs of marmoset
monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) in which one member of the pair was administered an 
intranasal OXT agonist, an OXT antagonist (OXTA), or saline. OXT treatment did
not alter the expression of affiliative toward an untreated partner. However, OXT
did significantly influence the expression of proximity and grooming behavior
with a treated partner, as a function of OXT treatment and sex. Female interest
in initiating and maintaining proximity with a pair-mate was altered by OXT
treatment. Untreated female marmosets departed from their saline-treated partner 
more frequently than they approached them, as indicated by a low proximity index 
score. However, when males received an intranasal OXT agonist they had a
significantly increased proximity index score relative to saline, indicating that
their untreated partner approached them more often than they departed from them).
Saline-treated females initiated and received equivalent levels of grooming
behavior. However, when female marmosets were treated with an OXT agonist their
untreated partner groomed them proportionately more often, for a greater total
duration, and for more time per bout, than they initiated grooming behavior.
These results suggest that intranasal OXT altered male and female marmosets'
stimulus properties in such a way as to increase the amount of grooming behavior 
that females received from their long-term mate, as well as increase female
interest in initiating and maintaining proximity with their long-term mate.
Furthermore, these results support the notion that central OXT activity plays an 
important neuromodulatory role in the maintenance of long-lasting male-female
relationships.

DOI: 10.3389/fnbeh.2015.00251 
PMCID: PMC4606015
PMID: 26528149 


1141. Sci Rep. 2015 Nov 3;5:16046. doi: 10.1038/srep16046.

Cognitive impairment in a young marmoset reveals lateral ventriculomegaly and a
mild hippocampal atrophy: a case report.

Sadoun A(1)(2), Strelnikov K(1)(2), Bonté E(1)(2), Fonta C(1)(2), Girard
P(1)(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Université de Toulouse; UPS; Centre de Recherche Cerveau et Cognition;
Toulouse, France.
(2)CerCo, CNRS UMR 5549, Toulouse, France.
(3)INSERM, Toulouse, France.

The number of studies that use the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) in
various fields of neurosciences is increasing dramatically. In general, animals
enter the study when their health status is considered satisfactory on the basis 
of classical clinical investigations. In behavioral studies, variations of score 
between individuals are frequently observed, some of them being considered as
poor performers or outliers. Experimenters rarely consider the fact that it could
be related to some brain anomaly. This raises the important issue of the
reliability of such classical behavioral approaches without using complementary
imaging, especially in animals lacking striking external clinical signs. Here we 
report the case of a young marmoset which presented a set of cognitive
impairments in two different tasks compared to other age-matched animals. Brain
imaging revealed a patent right lateral ventricular enlargement with a mild
hippocampal atrophy. This abnormality could explain the cognitive impairments of 
this animal. Such a case points to the importance of complementing behavioral
studies by imaging explorations to avoid experimental bias.

DOI: 10.1038/srep16046 
PMCID: PMC4630607
PMID: 26527211  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

