

1150. Brain Struct Funct. 2016 Nov;221(8):3903-3925. Epub 2015 Oct 26.

Expression and distribution of peroxiredoxins in the retina and optic nerve.

Chidlow G(1)(2), Wood JP(3)(4), Knoops B(5), Casson RJ(3)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Ophthalmic Research Laboratories, South Australian Institute of Ophthalmology,
Hanson Institute Centre for Neurological Diseases, Frome Rd, Adelaide, SA, 5000, 
Australia. glyn.chidlow@health.sa.gov.au.
(2)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, University of Adelaide, Frome
Rd, Adelaide, SA, 5000, Australia. glyn.chidlow@health.sa.gov.au.
(3)Ophthalmic Research Laboratories, South Australian Institute of Ophthalmology,
Hanson Institute Centre for Neurological Diseases, Frome Rd, Adelaide, SA, 5000, 
Australia.
(4)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, University of Adelaide, Frome
Rd, Adelaide, SA, 5000, Australia.
(5)Group of Animal Molecular and Cellular Biology, Institut des Sciences de la
Vie (ISV), Université catholique de Louvain, 1348, Louvain-la-Neuve, Belgium.

Oxidative stress is implicated in various pathological conditions of the retina
and optic nerve. Peroxiredoxins (Prdxs) comprise a recently characterized family 
of antioxidant enzymes. To date, little information exists regarding the
distribution of Prdxs in the eye. Herein, we employed a combination of qRT-PCR,
immunohistochemistry and Western blotting to determine the level of expression
and distribution of the six Prdx isoforms in the retina and optic nerve of the
rat. In addition, we performed some parallel analyses on the common marmoset
(Callithrix Jacchus). In the rat, all of the Prdx transcripts were expressed in
relatively high amounts in both retina and optic nerve, with abundances ranging
from approximately 3-50 % of the level of the housekeeping gene cyclophilin. With
regard to protein expression, each isoform was detected in the retina and optic
nerve by either Western blotting and/or immunohistochemistry. Excepting Prdx4,
there was a good correspondence between the rodent and primate results. In the
retina, Prdx1 and Prdx2 were principally localized to neurons in the inner
nuclear layer and cone photoreceptors, Prdx3 and Prdx5 displayed characteristic
mitochondrial immunolabeling, while Prdx6 was associated with astrocytes and
Müller cells. In the optic nerve, Prdx1 was robustly expressed by
oligodendrocytes, Prdx3 and Prdx5 were observed in axons, and Prdx6 was
restricted to astrocytes. The present findings augment our understanding of the
distribution and expression of the Prdxs in the retina and optic nerve of rodents
and primates and lay the foundation for subsequent analysis of their involvement 
in relevant blinding diseases.

DOI: 10.1007/s00429-015-1135-3 
PMCID: PMC5065902
PMID: 26501408  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing financial
interests.


1151. Front Psychol. 2015 Oct 7;6:1519. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2015.01519. eCollection
2015.

Can vocal conditioning trigger a semiotic ratchet in marmosets?

Turesson HK(1), Ribeiro S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Brain Institute, Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte , Natal, Brazil.

The complexity of human communication has often been taken as evidence that our
language reflects a true evolutionary leap, bearing little resemblance to any
other animal communication system. The putative uniqueness of the human language 
poses serious evolutionary and ethological challenges to a rational explanation
of human communication. Here we review ethological, anatomical, molecular, and
computational results across several species to set boundaries for these
challenges. Results from animal behavior, cognitive psychology, neurobiology, and
semiotics indicate that human language shares multiple features with other
primate communication systems, such as specialized brain circuits for
sensorimotor processing, the capability for indexical (pointing) and symbolic
(referential) signaling, the importance of shared intentionality for associative 
learning, affective conditioning and parental scaffolding of vocal production.
The most substantial differences lie in the higher human capacity for symbolic
compositionality, fast vertical transmission of new symbols across generations,
and irreversible accumulation of novel adaptive behaviors (cultural ratchet). We 
hypothesize that increasingly-complex vocal conditioning of an appropriate animal
model may be sufficient to trigger a semiotic ratchet, evidenced by progressive
sign complexification, as spontaneous contact calls become indexes, then symbols 
and finally arguments (strings of symbols). To test this hypothesis, we outline a
series of conditioning experiments in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).
The experiments are designed to probe the limits of vocal communication in a
prosocial, highly vocal primate 35 million years far from the human lineage, so
as to shed light on the mechanisms of semiotic complexification and cultural
transmission, and serve as a naturalistic behavioral setting for the
investigation of language disorders.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2015.01519 
PMCID: PMC4596241
PMID: 26500583 

