

1157. Primates. 2016 Jan;57(1):123-7.

Fatal attack on black-tufted-ear marmosets (Callithrix penicillata) by a Boa
constrictor: a simultaneous assault on two juvenile monkeys.

Teixeira DS, dos Santos E, Leal SG, de Jesus AK, Vargas WP, Dutra I, Barros M.

Here we report the first witnessed attack on a marmoset by a constrictor snake.
The incident occurred mid-morning in a gallery forest within an altered landscape
of the Cerrado region of central Brazil and refers to a fatal attack by a Boa
constrictor on two juvenile black-tufted-ear marmosets (Callithrix penicillata)
simultaneously. The snake captured both individuals at a height of ~ 4 m while a 
group of eight marmosets traveled through the subcanopy. The actual strike was
not seen. After 2 min, the boa fell to the ground with both marmosets in its
coils and proceeded to kill one animal at a time through constriction. Two adult 
marmosets immediately descended to where the snake held its victims on the ground
and attacked it. The snake showed no apparent reaction, and after ~ 1-2 min, the 
adults rejoined the remaining group members that were mobbing and vocalizing from
5 to 6 m above. The group left the scene ~ 7 min after the onset of the attack
and was not seen again. The snake loosened its coils 10 min after its initial
strike, left the two carcasses on the ground and stayed behind a nearby tree.
Thus, we are not sure if the victims were in fact ingested. This report confirms 
that marmosets are vulnerable to boid snakes and capable of highly organized and 
cooperative antipredation behavior. It also suggests that snakes pose a greater
threat to callitrichids than previously thought.

DOI: 10.1007/s10329-015-0495-x 
PMID: 26467338  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1158. Sci Rep. 2015 Oct 12;5:15006. doi: 10.1038/srep15006.

Mismatch negativity in common marmosets: Whole-cortical recordings with
multi-channel electrocorticograms.

Komatsu M(1), Takaura K(1), Fujii N(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Adaptive Intelligence, RIKEN Brain Science Institute, 2-1
Hirosawa, Wako, Saitama 351-0198, Japan.

Mismatch negativity (MMN) is a component of event-related potentials (ERPs)
evoked by violations of regularity in sensory stimulus-series in humans.
Recently, the MMN has received attention as a clinical and translatable biomarker
of psychiatric disorders such as schizophrenia, and for the development animal
models of these psychiatric disorders. In this study, we investigated the
generation of MMN in common marmosets, which are an important non-human primate
model with genetic manipulability. We recorded the electrocorticograms (ECoGs)
from two common marmosets with epidurally implanted electrodes covering a wide
range of cortical regions. ECoG recordings were conducted in a passive listening 
condition with a roving oddball paradigm. We compared the ERPs evoked by
repeatedly presented standard stimuli and those evoked by the deviant stimuli.
Significant differences in the ERPs were observed in several cortical areas. In
particular, deviant stimuli elicited larger negative activity than standard
stimuli in the temporal area. In addition, the latency and polarity of the
activity were comparable to human MMNs. This is thus the first report of MMN-like
activity in common marmosets. Our findings have the potential to advance future
gene-manipulation studies that aim to establish non-human primate models of
schizophrenia.

DOI: 10.1038/srep15006 
PMCID: PMC4601015
PMID: 26456147  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

