

1160. Neuroscience. 2016 Jan 15;312:247-59. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2015.09.065.
Epub 2015 Oct 9.

Progression and recovery of Parkinsonism in a chronic progressive MPTP-induction 
model in the marmoset without persistent molecular and cellular damage.

Franke SK(1), van Kesteren RE(2), Wubben JA(3), Hofman S(3), Paliukhovich I(2),
van der Schors RC(2), van Nierop P(2), Smit AB(2), Philippens IH(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Cellular Neurobiology, Center for Neurogenomics
and Cognitive Research, Neuroscience Campus Amsterdam, VU University, Amsterdam, 
The Netherlands; Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Rijswijk, The Netherlands.
(2)Department of Molecular and Cellular Neurobiology, Center for Neurogenomics
and Cognitive Research, Neuroscience Campus Amsterdam, VU University, Amsterdam, 
The Netherlands.
(3)Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Rijswijk, The Netherlands.
(4)Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Rijswijk, The Netherlands. Electronic
address: philippens@bprc.nl.

Chronic exposure to low-dose 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) 
in marmoset monkeys was used to model the prodromal stage of Parkinson's disease 
(PD), and to investigate mechanisms underlying disease progression and recovery. 
Marmosets were subcutaneously injected with MPTP for a period of 12weeks,
0.5mg/kg once per week, and clinical signs of Parkinsonism, motor- and non-motor 
behaviors were recorded before, during and after exposure. In addition,
postmortem immunohistochemistry and proteomics analysis were performed.
MPTP-induced parkinsonian clinical symptoms increased in severity during
exposure, and recovered after MPTP administration was ended. Postmortem analyses,
after the recovery period, revealed no alteration of the number and sizes of
tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-positive dopamine (DA) neurons in the substantia nigra.
Also levels of TH in putamen and caudate nucleus were unaltered, no differences
were observed in DA, serotonin or nor-adrenalin levels in the caudate nucleus,
and proteomics analysis revealed no global changes in protein expression in these
brain areas between treatment groups. Our findings indicate that parkinsonian
symptoms can occur without detectable damage at the cellular or molecular level. 
Moreover, we show that parkinsonian symptoms may be reversible when diagnosed and
treated early.

Copyright © 2015 IBRO. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2015.09.065 
PMID: 26431624  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1161. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2015 Oct;56(11):6255-64. doi: 10.1167/iovs.15-17726.

Evolutionary Characterization of the Retinitis Pigmentosa GTPase Regulator Gene.

Raghupathy RK(1), Gautier P(2), Soares DC(2), Wright AF(2), Shu X(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Life Sciences Glasgow Caledonian University, Glasgow, United
Kingdom.
(2)MRC Human Genetics Unit, MRC Institute of Genetics and Molecular Medicine,
University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, United Kingdom.

PURPOSE: The evolutionary conservation of the retinitis pigmentosa GTPase
regulator (RPGR) gene was examined across vertebrate and invertebrate lineages to
elucidate its function.
METHODS: Orthologous RPGR sequences from vertebrates and invertebrates were
selected. Multiple sequence alignments, phylogenetic analyses, synteny, and gene 
structure comparisons were carried out. Expression of the alternatively spliced
constitutive (RPGR(const) or RPGR(ex1-19)) and RPGR(ORF15) isoforms was examined 
in developing and adult zebrafish.
RESULTS: Phylogenetic analyses and syntenic relationships were consistent with
the selected sequences being true orthologues, although whole genome duplications
in teleost fish resulted in a more complex picture. The splice form RPGR(const)
was present in all vertebrate and invertebrate species but the defining carboxyl 
(C)-terminal exon of RPGR(ORF15) was absent from all invertebrates. The regulator
of chromosome condensation (RCC1)-like domain adopts a seven-bladed β-propeller
structure, which was present in both major splice forms and strongly conserved
across evolution. The repetitive acidic region of RPGR(ORF15) showed a high rate 
of in-frame deletions/insertions across nine primate species, compared with
flanking sequences, consistent with an unstable and rapidly evolving region. In
zebrafish, RPGR(const) transcripts were most strongly expressed in early
development, while the RPGR(ORF15) isoform showed highest expression in adult
eye.
CONCLUSIONS: The regulator of chromosome condensation 1-like domain of RPGR was
conserved in vertebrates and invertebrates, but RPGR(ORF15) was unique to
vertebrates, consistent with a proposed role in the ciliary-based transport of
cargoes such as rhodopsin, which is ∼10 times more abundant in vertebrate than
invertebrate photoreceptors. The repetitive acidic region of RPGR(ORF15) shows a 
rapid rate of evolution, consistent with a mutation "hot spot."

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.15-17726 
PMCID: PMC5841567
PMID: 26431479  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

