

1172. Neuropathology. 2016 Feb;36(1):3-16. doi: 10.1111/neup.12229. Epub 2015 Aug 24.

Antibody-enhanced dengue disease generates a marked CNS inflammatory response in 
the black-tufted marmoset Callithrix penicillata.

Vasconcelos BC(1), Vieira JA(2), Silva GO(2), Fernandes TN(3), Rocha LC(2), Viana
AP(2), Serique CD(2), Filho CS(2), Bringel RA(2), Teixeira FF(2), Ferreira MS(4),
Casseb SM(4), Carvalho VL(4), de Melo KF(4), de Castro PH(5), Araújo SC(6), Diniz
JA(6), Demachki S(7), Anaissi AK(7), Sosthenes MC(2), Vasconcelos PF(4), Anthony 
DC(8), Diniz CW(2), Diniz DG(2).

Author information: 
(1)Universidade do Estado do Pará, UEPA, Centro de Ciências da Saúde, Curso de
Graduação em Medicina.
(2)Universidade Federal do Pará, UFPA, Instituto de Ciências Biológicas,
Laboratório de Investigações em Neurodegeneração e Infecção, Hospital
Universitário João de Barros Barreto.
(3)Universidade da Amazônia, UNAMA, Curso de Graduação em Biologia, Belém.
(4)Instituto Evandro Chagas, IEC, Departamento de Arbovirologia e Febres
Hemorrágicas.
(5)Centro Nacional de Primatas, Instituto Evandro Chagas, Ananindeua, Pará,
Brasil.
(6)Instituto Evandro Chagas, IEC, Departamento de Microscopia Eletrônica, Belém, 
Pará, Brasil.
(7)Universidade Federal do Pará, UFPA, Instituto de Ciências da Saúde,
Laboratório de Anatomia Patológica, Hospital Universitário João de Barros
Barreto, Belém, Pará, Brasil.
(8)Department of Pharmacology, Laboratory of Experimental Neuropathology,
University of Oxford, Mansfield Road, Oxford, United Kingdom.

Severe dengue disease is often associated with long-term neurological
impairments, but it is unclear what mechanisms are associated with neurological
sequelae. Previously, we demonstrated antibody-enhanced dengue disease (ADE)
dengue in an immunocompetent mouse model with a dengue virus 2 (DENV2) antibody
injection followed by DENV3 virus infection. Here we migrated this ADE model to
Callithrix penicillata. To mimic human multiple infections of endemic zones where
abundant vectors and multiple serotypes co-exist, three animals received weekly
subcutaneous injections of DENV3 (genotype III)-infected supernatant of C6/36
cell cultures, followed 24 h later by anti-DENV2 antibody for 12 weeks. There
were six control animals, two of which received weekly anti-DENV2 antibodies, and
four further animals received no injections. After multiple infections, brain,
liver, and spleen samples were collected and tissue was immunolabeled for DENV3
antigens, ionized calcium binding adapter molecule 1, Ki-67, TNFα. There were
marked morphological changes in the microglial population of ADE monkeys
characterized by more highly ramified microglial processes, higher numbers of
trees and larger surface areas. These changes were associated with intense
TNFα-positive immunolabeling. It is unclear why ADE should generate such
microglial activation given that IgG does not cross the blood-brain barrier, but 
this study reveals that in ADE dengue therapy targeting the CNS host response is 
likely to be important.

© 2015 Japanese Society of Neuropathology.

DOI: 10.1111/neup.12229 
PMID: 26303046  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1173. Braz J Infect Dis. 2015 Sep-Oct;19(5):479-85. doi: 10.1016/j.bjid.2015.06.012.
Epub 2015 Aug 21.

Fluorescent antibody test, quantitative polymerase chain reaction pattern and
clinical aspects of rabies virus strains isolated from main reservoirs in Brazil.

Appolinário C(1), Allendorf SD(1), Vicente AF(1), Ribeiro BD(1), Fonseca CR(1),
Antunes JM(1), Peres MG(1), Kotait I(2), Carrieri ML(3), Megid J(4).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Higiene Veterinária e Saúde Pública, Faculdade de Medicina
Veterinária e Zootecnia, Universidade Estadual Paulista (UNESP), Botucatu, SP,
Brazil.
(2)Instituto Biológico de São Paulo, São Paulo, SP, Brazil.
(3)Secção de Raiva, Instituto Butantan, Secretaria da Saúde, São Paulo, SP,
Brazil.
(4)Departamento de Higiene Veterinária e Saúde Pública, Faculdade de Medicina
Veterinária e Zootecnia, Universidade Estadual Paulista (UNESP), Botucatu, SP,
Brazil. Electronic address: jane@fmvz.unesp.br.

Rabies virus (RABV) isolated from different mammals seems to have unique
characteristics that influence the outcome of infection. RABV circulates in
nature and is maintained by reservoirs that are responsible for the persistence
of the disease for almost 4000 years. Considering the different pattern of
pathogenicity of RABV strains in naturally and experimentally infected animals,
the aim of this study was to analyze the characteristics of RABV variants
isolated from the main Brazilian reservoirs, being related to a dog (variant 2), 
Desmodus rotundus (variant 3), crab eating fox, marmoset, and Myotis spp. Viral
replication in brain tissue of experimentally infected mouse was evaluated by two
laboratory techniques and the results were compared to clinical evolution from
five RABV variants. The presence of the RABV was investigated in brain samples by
fluorescent antibody test (FAT) and real time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR)
for quantification of rabies virus nucleoprotein gene (N gene). Virus replication
is not correlated with clinical signs and evolution. The pattern of FAT is
associated with RABV replication levels. Virus isolates from crab eating fox and 
marmoset had a longer evolution period and higher survival rate suggesting that
the evolution period may contribute to the outcome. RABV virus variants had
independent characteristics that determine the clinical evolution and survival of
the infected mice.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Editora Ltda. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bjid.2015.06.012 
PMID: 26303004  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

