

12. Mol Brain. 2022 Feb 10;15(1):16. doi: 10.1186/s13041-022-00901-2.

A natural marmoset model of genetic generalized epilepsy.

Yang X(#)(1), Chen Z(#)(1), Wang Z(1), He G(1), Li Z(1), Shi Y(1), Gong N(2),
Zhao B(1), Kuang Y(1), Takahashi E(3), Li W(4)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Bio-X Institutes, Key Laboratory for the Genetics of Development and
Neuropsychiatric Disorders (Ministry of Education), Shanghai Key Laboratory of
Psychotic Disorders, and Brain Science and Technology Research Center, Institute 
of Psychology and Behavioral Sciences, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai,
200240, China.
(2)Institute of Neuroscience, Key Laboratory of Primate Neurobiology, CAS Center 
for Excellence in Brain Science and Intelligence Technology, Chinese Academy of
Sciences, Shanghai, 200031, China.
(3)Bio-X Institutes, Key Laboratory for the Genetics of Development and
Neuropsychiatric Disorders (Ministry of Education), Shanghai Key Laboratory of
Psychotic Disorders, and Brain Science and Technology Research Center, Institute 
of Psychology and Behavioral Sciences, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai,
200240, China. eiki.takahashi.sjt@gmail.com.
(4)Bio-X Institutes, Key Laboratory for the Genetics of Development and
Neuropsychiatric Disorders (Ministry of Education), Shanghai Key Laboratory of
Psychotic Disorders, and Brain Science and Technology Research Center, Institute 
of Psychology and Behavioral Sciences, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai,
200240, China. liwd@sjtu.edu.cn.
(5)WLA Laboratories, World Laureates Association, Shanghai, 201203, China.
liwd@sjtu.edu.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

Epilepsy has been extensively studied as a common neurological disease. Efforts
have been made on rodent and other animal models to reveal the pathogenic
mechanisms of epilepsy and develop new drugs for treatment. However, the features
of current epilepsy models cannot fully mimic different types of epilepsy in
humans, hence non-human primate models of epilepsy are required. The common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is a New World monkey that is widely used to study 
brain function. Here, we present a natural marmoset model of generalized
epilepsy. In this unique marmoset family, generalized epilepsy was successfully
induced by handling operations in some individuals. We mapped the marmoset family
with handling-sensitive epilepsy and found that the epileptic phenotype can be
inherited. These marmosets were more sensitive to the epilepsy inducers
pentylenetetrazol. Using electrocorticogram (ECoG) recordings, we detected
epileptiform discharge in marmosets with a history of seizures. In summary, we
report a family of marmosets with generalized seizures induced by handling
operations. This epileptic marmoset family provides insights to better understand
the mechanism of generalized epilepsy and helps to develop new therapeutic
methods.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13041-022-00901-2 
PMCID: PMC8832845
PMID: 35144651 


13. Neuroimage. 2022 Apr 15;250:118965. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2022.118965. Epub
2022 Feb 2.

Anatomical variability, multi-modal coordinate systems, and precision targeting
in the marmoset brain.

Ose T(1), Autio JA(2), Ohno M(3), Frey S(4), Uematsu A(5), Kawasaki A(6), Takeda 
C(7), Hori Y(8), Nishigori K(9), Nakako T(10), Yokoyama C(11), Nagata H(12),
Yamamori T(13), Van Essen DC(14), Glasser MF(15), Watabe H(16), Hayashi T(17).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Brain Connectomics Imaging, RIKEN Center for Biosystems
Dynamics Research, Kobe, Japan; Graduate School of Biomedical Engineering, Tohoku
University, Sendai, Japan. Electronic address: ose@riken.jp.
(2)Laboratory for Brain Connectomics Imaging, RIKEN Center for Biosystems
Dynamics Research, Kobe, Japan. Electronic address: joonas.autio@riken.jp.
(3)Laboratory for Brain Connectomics Imaging, RIKEN Center for Biosystems
Dynamics Research, Kobe, Japan. Electronic address: m-ohno@riken.jp.
(4)Rogue Research Inc, Montreal, Canada. Electronic address:
steve@rogue-research.com.
(5)Laboratory for Brain Connectomics Imaging, RIKEN Center for Biosystems
Dynamics Research, Kobe, Japan. Electronic address: akiko.uematsu@riken.jp.
(6)Laboratory for Brain Connectomics Imaging, RIKEN Center for Biosystems
Dynamics Research, Kobe, Japan. Electronic address: aki_kawasaki@riken.jp.
(7)Laboratory for Brain Connectomics Imaging, RIKEN Center for Biosystems
Dynamics Research, Kobe, Japan. Electronic address: ctakeda@riken.jp.
(8)Laboratory for Brain Connectomics Imaging, RIKEN Center for Biosystems
Dynamics Research, Kobe, Japan; Department of Functional Brain Imaging, National 
Institutes for Quantum and Radiological Science and Technology, Chiba, Japan.
(9)Laboratory for Brain Connectomics Imaging, RIKEN Center for Biosystems
Dynamics Research, Kobe, Japan; Sumitomo Dainippon Pharma Co. Ltd., Osaka, Japan.
Electronic address: kantaro-nishigori@ds-pharma.co.jp.
(10)Laboratory for Brain Connectomics Imaging, RIKEN Center for Biosystems
Dynamics Research, Kobe, Japan; Sumitomo Dainippon Pharma Co. Ltd., Osaka, Japan.
Electronic address: tomokazu-nakako@ds-pharma.co.jp.
(11)Laboratory for Brain Connectomics Imaging, RIKEN Center for Biosystems
Dynamics Research, Kobe, Japan; Faculty of Human life and Environmental Science, 
Nara women's University, Nara, Japan. Electronic address: chihiro@nara-wu.ac.jp.
(12)Sumitomo Dainippon Pharma Co. Ltd., Osaka, Japan. Electronic address:
hidetaka-nagata@ds-pharma.co.jp.
(13)Laboratory for Molecular Analysis of Higher Brain Function, RIKEN Center for 
Brain Science, Wako, Japan. Electronic address: tetsuo.yamamori@riken.jp.
(14)Department of Neuroscience, Washington University Medical School, St Louis,
MO United States. Electronic address: vanessen@wustl.edu.
(15)Department of Neuroscience, Washington University Medical School, St Louis,
MO United States; Department of Radiology, Washington University Medical School, 
St Louis, MO United States. Electronic address: glasserm@wustl.edu.
(16)Graduate School of Biomedical Engineering, Tohoku University, Sendai, Japan. 
Electronic address: watabe@cyric.tohoku.ac.jp.
(17)Laboratory for Brain Connectomics Imaging, RIKEN Center for Biosystems
Dynamics Research, Kobe, Japan; Department of Brain Connectomics, Kyoto
University Graduate School of Medicine, Kyoto, Japan. Electronic address:
takuya.hayashi@riken.jp.

Localising accurate brain regions needs careful evaluation in each experimental
species due to their individual variability. However, the function and
connectivity of brain areas is commonly studied using a single-subject cranial
landmark-based stereotactic atlas in animal neuroscience. Here, we address this
issue in a small primate, the common marmoset, which is increasingly widely used 
in systems neuroscience. We developed a non-invasive multi-modal
neuroimaging-based targeting pipeline, which accounts for intersubject anatomical
variability in cranial and cortical landmarks in marmosets. This methodology
allowed creation of multi-modal templates (MarmosetRIKEN20) including head CT and
brain MR images, embedded in coordinate systems of anterior and posterior
commissures (AC-PC) and CIFTI grayordinates. We found that the horizontal plane
of the stereotactic coordinate was significantly rotated in pitch relative to the
AC-PC coordinate system (10 degrees, frontal downwards), and had a significant
bias and uncertainty due to positioning procedures. We also found that many
common cranial and brain landmarks (e.g., bregma, intraparietal sulcus) vary in
location across subjects and are substantial relative to average marmoset
cortical area dimensions. Combining the neuroimaging-based targeting pipeline
with robot-guided surgery enabled proof-of-concept targeting of deep brain
structures with an accuracy of 0.2 mm. Altogether, our findings demonstrate
substantial intersubject variability in marmoset brain and cranial landmarks,
implying that subject-specific neuroimaging-based localization is needed for
precision targeting in marmosets. The population-based templates and atlases in
grayordinates, created for the first time in marmoset monkeys, should help
bridging between macroscale and microscale analyses.

Copyright © 2022. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2022.118965 
PMCID: PMC8948178 [Available on 2022-04-15]
PMID: 35122965  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest Stephen Frey is
employed by Rogue Research Inc. All the other authors declare no competing
financial interests.

