

120. Commun Biol. 2021 Jun 15;4(1):739. doi: 10.1038/s42003-021-02256-1.

Lévy walk dynamics explain gamma burst patterns in primate cerebral cortex.

Liu Y(#)(1)(2), Long X(#)(1)(2), Martin PR(2)(3)(4), Solomon SG(5), Gong P(6)(7).

Author information: 
(1)School of Physics, University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW, Australia.
(2)ARC Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain Function, University of Sydney,
Sydney, NSW, Australia.
(3)Discipline of Physiology, University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW, Australia.
(4)Save Sight Institute, University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW, Australia.
(5)Department of Experimental Psychology, University College London, London, UK.
(6)School of Physics, University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW, Australia.
pulin.gong@sydney.edu.au.
(7)ARC Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain Function, University of Sydney,
Sydney, NSW, Australia. pulin.gong@sydney.edu.au.
(#)Contributed equally

Lévy walks describe patterns of intermittent motion with variable step sizes. In 
complex biological systems, Lévy walks (non-Brownian, superdiffusive random
walks) are associated with behaviors such as search patterns of animals foraging 
for food. Here we show that Lévy walks also describe patterns of oscillatory
activity in primate cerebral cortex. We used a combination of empirical
observation and modeling to investigate high-frequency (gamma band) local field
potential activity in visual motion-processing cortical area MT of marmoset
monkeys. We found that gamma activity is organized as localized burst patterns
that propagate across the cortical surface with Lévy walk dynamics. Lévy walks
are fundamentally different from either global synchronization, or regular
propagating waves, because they include large steps that enable activity patterns
to move rapidly over cortical modules. The presence of Lévy walk dynamics
therefore represents a previously undiscovered mode of brain activity, and
implies a novel way for the cortex to compute. We apply a biophysically realistic
circuit model to explain that the Lévy walk dynamics arise from critical-state
transitions between asynchronous and localized propagating wave states, and that 
these dynamics yield optimal spatial sampling of the cortical sheet. We
hypothesise that Lévy walk dynamics could help the cortex to efficiently process 
variable inputs, and to find links in patterns of activity among sparsely spiking
populations of neurons.

DOI: 10.1038/s42003-021-02256-1 
PMCID: PMC8206356
PMID: 34131276  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


121. ILAR J. 2020 Dec 31;61(2-3):139-166. doi: 10.1093/ilar/ilab017.

Research Relevant Conditions and Pathology in Nonhuman Primates.

Saravanan C(1), Flandre T(2), Hodo CL(3), Lewis AD(4), Mecklenburg L(5), Romeike 
A(5), Turner OC(6), Yen HY(5).

Author information: 
(1)Novartis, Novartis Institutes for BioMedical Research, Preclinical Safety,
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA.
(2)Novartis, Novartis Institutes for BioMedical Research, Preclinical Safety,
Basel, Switzerland.
(3)The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Michale E. Keeling Center
for Comparative Medicine and Research, Bastrop, Texas, USA.
(4)Oregon National Primate Research Center, Beaverton, Oregon, USA.
(5)Covance Preclinical Services GmbH, Münster 48163, Germany.
(6)Novartis, Novartis Institutes for BioMedical Research, Preclinical Safety,
East Hanover, New Jersey, USA.

Biomedical research involving animal models continues to provide important
insights into disease pathogenesis and treatment of diseases that impact human
health. In particular, nonhuman primates (NHPs) have been used extensively in
translational research due to their phylogenetic proximity to humans and
similarities to disease pathogenesis and treatment responses as assessed in
clinical trials. Microscopic changes in tissues remain a significant endpoint in 
studies involving these models. Spontaneous, expected (ie, incidental or
background) histopathologic changes are commonly encountered and influenced by
species, genetic variations, age, and geographical origin of animals, including
exposure to infectious or parasitic agents. Often, the background findings
confound study-related changes, because numbers of NHPs used in research are
limited by animal welfare and other considerations. Moreover, background findings
in NHPs can be exacerbated by experimental conditions such as treatment with
xenobiotics (eg, infectious morphological changes related to immunosuppressive
therapy). This review and summary of research-relevant conditions and pathology
in rhesus and cynomolgus macaques, baboons, African green monkeys, common
marmosets, tamarins, and squirrel and owl monkeys aims to improve the
interpretation and validity of NHP studies.

© The Author(s) 2021. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the
National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine. All rights reserved.
For permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/ilar/ilab017 
PMCID: PMC8918156 [Available on 2022-06-15]
PMID: 34129672 

