

1201. PLoS One. 2015 Jul 6;10(7):e0131742. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0131742.
eCollection 2015.

Susceptibility of Marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) to Monkeypox Virus: A Low Dose
Prospective Model for Monkeypox and Smallpox Disease.

Mucker EM(1), Chapman J(2), Huzella LM(3), Huggins JW(4), Shamblin J(4), Robinson
CG(5), Hensley LE(3).

Author information: 
(1)Virology Division, United States Army Medical Research Institute of Infectious
Diseases, Fort Detrick, Maryland, United States of America; Tulane University
School of Medicine, New Orleans, Louisianna, United States of America.
(2)Joint Pathology Center, Silver Spring, Maryland, United States of America.
(3)Integrated Research Facility, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious
Diseases, Fort Detrick, Maryland, United States of America.
(4)Virology Division, United States Army Medical Research Institute of Infectious
Diseases, Fort Detrick, Maryland, United States of America.
(5)Pathology Division, United States Army Medical Research Institute of
Infectious Diseases, Fort Detrick, Maryland, United States of America.

Although current nonhuman primate models of monkeypox and smallpox diseases
provide some insight into disease pathogenesis, they require a high titer
inoculum, use an unnatural route of infection, and/or do not accurately represent
the entire disease course. This is a concern when developing smallpox and/or
monkeypox countermeasures or trying to understand host pathogen relationships. In
our studies, we altered half of the test system by using a New World nonhuman
primate host, the common marmoset. Based on dose finding studies, we found that
marmosets are susceptible to monkeypox virus infection, produce a high viremia,
and have pathological features consistent with smallpox and monkeypox in humans. 
The low dose (48 plaque forming units) required to elicit a uniformly lethal
disease and the extended incubation (preclinical signs) are unique features among
nonhuman primate models utilizing monkeypox virus. The uniform lethality,
hemorrhagic rash, high viremia, decrease in platelets, pathology, and abbreviated
acute phase are reflective of early-type hemorrhagic smallpox.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0131742 
PMCID: PMC4492619
PMID: 26147658  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1202. Behav Brain Res. 2015 Oct 1;292:323-6. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2015.06.006. Epub 2015 
Jun 29.

Indifference of marmosets with prenatal valproate exposure to third-party
non-reciprocal interactions with otherwise avoided non-reciprocal individuals.

Yasue M(1), Nakagami A(1), Banno T(2), Nakagaki K(2), Ichinohe N(3), Kawai N(4).

Author information: 
(1)Graduate School of Information Science, Nagoya University, Japan; Department
of Ultrastructural Research, National Institute of Neuroscience, National Center 
of Neurology and Psychiatry (NCNP), Japan.
(2)Department of Ultrastructural Research, National Institute of Neuroscience,
National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry (NCNP), Japan.
(3)Department of Ultrastructural Research, National Institute of Neuroscience,
National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry (NCNP), Japan; Ichinohe Neural System
Group, Lab for Molecular Analysis of Higher Brain Functions RIKEN BSI, Japan.
Electronic address: nichino@ncnp.go.jp.
(4)Graduate School of Information Science, Nagoya University, Japan; Department
of Ultrastructural Research, National Institute of Neuroscience, National Center 
of Neurology and Psychiatry (NCNP), Japan. Electronic address:
kawai@is.nagoya-u.ac.jp.

Autism is characterized by deficits in social interaction and social recognition.
Although animal models of autism have demonstrated that model animals engage less
in social interaction or attend less to conspecifics than control animals, no
animal model has yet replicated the deficit in recognition of complex social
interaction as is seen in humans with autism. Here, we show that marmosets
discriminated between human actors who reciprocated in social exchanges and those
who did not; however, marmosets with foetal exposure to valproic acid (VPA
marmosets) did not. In the reciprocal condition, two actors exchanged food
equally, while in the non-reciprocal condition, one actor (non-reciprocator)
ended up with all food and the other actor with none. After observing these
exchanges, the control marmosets avoided receiving food from the non-reciprocator
in the non-reciprocal condition. However, the VPA marmosets did not show
differential preferences in either condition, suggesting that the VPA marmosets
did not discriminate between reciprocal and non-reciprocal interactions. These
results indicate that normal marmosets can evaluate social interaction between
third-parties, while the VPA marmosets are unable to recognize whether an
individual is being reciprocal or not. This test battery can serve as a useful
tool to qualify primate models of autism.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2015.06.006 
PMID: 26133500  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

