

1204. Am J Primatol. 2016 Mar;78(3):372-87. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22431. Epub 2015 Jun 25.

Complex cooperative breeders: Using infant care costs to explain variability in
callitrichine social and reproductive behavior.

Díaz-Muñoz SL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Section of Ecology, Behavior and Evolution, University of California, San
Diego, California.

The influence of ecology on social behavior and mating strategies is one of the
central questions in behavioral ecology and primatology. Callitrichines are New
World primates that exhibit high behavioral variability, which is widely
acknowledged, but not always systematically researched. Here, I examine the
hypothesis that differences in the cost of infant care among genera help explain 
variation in reproductive traits. I present an integrative approach to generate
and evaluate predictions from this hypothesis. I first identify callitrichine
traits that vary minimally and traits that are more flexible (e.g., have greater 
variance or norm of reaction), including the number of males that mate with a
breeding female, mechanisms of male reproductive competition, number of natal
young retained, and the extent of female reproductive suppression. I outline how 
these more labile traits should vary along a continuum of infant care costs
according to individual reproductive strategies. At one end of the spectrum, I
predict that groups with higher infant care costs will show multiple adult males 
mating and providing infant care, high subordinate female reproductive
suppression, few natal individuals delaying dispersal, and increased reproductive
output by the dominant female -with opposite predictions under low infant costs. 
I derive an estimate of the differences in ecological and physiological infant
care costs that suggest an order of ascending costs in the wild: Cebuella,
Callithrix, Mico, Callimico, Saguinus, and Leontopithecus. I examine the
literature on each genus for the most variable traits and evaluate a) where they 
fall along the continuum of infant care costs according to their reproductive
strategies, and b) whether these costs correspond to the ecophysiological
estimates of infant care costs. I conclude that infant care costs can provide a
unifying explanation for the most variable reproductive traits among
callitrichine genera. The approach presented can be used to generate predictions 
and motivate researchers to unravel complexity in callitrichine social and
reproductive behavior.

© 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22431 
PMID: 26111848  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1205. J Acoust Soc Am. 2015 Jun;137(6):3068-76. doi: 10.1121/1.4921607.

The source-filter theory of whistle-like calls in marmosets: Acoustic analysis
and simulation of helium-modulated voices.

Koda H(1), Tokuda IT(2), Wakita M(1), Ito T(3), Nishimura T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Primate Research Institute, Kyoto University, Inuyama, Aichi 484-8506, Japan.
(2)Department of Mechanical Engineering, Ritsumeikan University, Kusatsu, Shiga
525-8577, Japan.
(3)Department of Human Biology and Anatomy, Graduate School of Medicine,
University of the Ryukyus, Nishihara, Okinawa 903-0215, Japan.

Whistle-like high-pitched "phee" calls are often used as long-distance vocal
advertisements by small-bodied marmosets and tamarins in the dense forests of
South America. While the source-filter theory proposes that vibration of the
vocal fold is modified independently from the resonance of the supralaryngeal
vocal tract (SVT) in human speech, a source-filter coupling that constrains the
vibration frequency to SVT resonance effectively produces loud tonal sounds in
some musical instruments. Here, a combined approach of acoustic analyses and
simulation with helium-modulated voices was used to show that phee calls are
produced principally with the same mechanism as in human speech. The animal keeps
the fundamental frequency (f0) close to the first formant (F1) of the SVT, to
amplify f0. Although f0 and F1 are primarily independent, the degree of their
tuning can be strengthened further by a flexible source-filter interaction, the
variable strength of which depends upon the cross-sectional area of the laryngeal
cavity. The results highlight the evolutionary antiquity and universality of the 
source-filter model in primates, but the study can also explore the
diversification of vocal physiology, including source-filter interaction and its 
anatomical basis in non-human primates.

DOI: 10.1121/1.4921607 
PMID: 26093398  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

