

1207. Sci Rep. 2015 Jun 19;5:10950. doi: 10.1038/srep10950.

High-field functional magnetic resonance imaging of vocalization processing in
marmosets.

Sadagopan S(1), Temiz-Karayol NZ(1), Voss HU(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Neural Systems, The Rockefeller University, New York, NY 10065.
(2)Department of Radiology and Citigroup Biomedical Imaging Center, Weill Cornell
Medical College, New York, NY 10021.

Vocalizations are behaviorally critical sounds, and this behavioral importance is
reflected in the ascending auditory system, where conspecific vocalizations are
increasingly over-represented at higher processing stages. Recent evidence
suggests that, in macaques, this increasing selectivity for vocalizations might
culminate in a cortical region that is densely populated by
vocalization-preferring neurons. Such a region might be a critical node in the
representation of vocal communication sounds, underlying the recognition of
vocalization type, caller and social context. These results raise the questions
of whether cortical specializations for vocalization processing exist in other
species, their cortical location, and their relationship to the auditory
processing hierarchy. To explore cortical specializations for vocalizations in
another species, we performed high-field fMRI of the auditory cortex of a vocal
New World primate, the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). Using a sparse
imaging paradigm, we discovered a caudal-rostral gradient for the processing of
conspecific vocalizations in marmoset auditory cortex, with regions of the
anterior temporal lobe close to the temporal pole exhibiting the highest
preference for vocalizations. These results demonstrate similar cortical
specializations for vocalization processing in macaques and marmosets, suggesting
that cortical specializations for vocal processing might have evolved before the 
lineages of these species diverged.

DOI: 10.1038/srep10950 
PMCID: PMC4473644
PMID: 26091254  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1208. Monoclon Antib Immunodiagn Immunother. 2015 Jun;34(3):181-90. doi:
10.1089/mab.2014.0072.

Production of a High-affinity Monoclonal Antibody Reactive with Folate Receptors 
Alpha and Beta.

Nagai T(1), Furusho Y(1), Li H(1), Hasui K(1), Matsukita S(2), Sueyoshi K(3),
Yanagi M(4), Hatae M(5), Takao S(6), Matsuyama T(6).

Author information: 
(1)1 Department of Immunology, Graduate School of Medical and Dental Sciences,
Kagoshima University , Kagoshima, Japan .
(2)2 Department of Clinical Pathology, Kagoshima Kousei-Ren Hospital , Kagoshima,
Japan .
(3)3 Department of Clinical Pathology, Kagoshima City Hospital , Kagoshima, Japan
.
(4)4 Department of Surgery, Kagoshima City Hospital , Kagoshima, Japan .
(5)5 Department of Obstetrics, Kagoshima City Hospital , Kagoshima, Japan .
(6)6 The Center for Advanced Biomedical Sciences and Swine Research, Kagoshima
University , Kagoshima, Japan .

Folate receptors α (FRα) and β (FRβ) are two isoforms of the cell surface
glycoprotein that binds folate. The expression of FRα is rare in normal cells and
elevated in cancer cells. Thus, FRα-based tumor-targeted therapy has been a focus
area of laboratory research and clinical trials. Recently, it was shown that a
significant fraction of tumor-associated macrophages expresses FRβ and that these
cells can enhance tumor growth. Although FRα and FRβ share 70% identity in their 
deduced amino acid sequence, a monoclonal antibody (MAb) reactive with both
receptors has not been developed. A MAb that can target both FRα-expressing
cancer cells and FRβ-expressing tumor-associated macrophages may provide a more
potent therapeutic tool for cancer than individual anti-FRα or anti-FRβ MAbs. In 
this study, we developed a MAb that recognizes both FRα and FRβ (anti-FRαβ). The 
anti-FRαβ specifically stained trophoblasts and macrophages from human placenta, 
synovial macrophages from rheumatoid arthritis patient, liver macrophages from
cynomolgus monkey and common marmoset, and cancer cells and tumor-associated
macrophages from ovary and lung carcinomas. Surface plasmon resonance showed that
the anti-FRαβ bound to soluble forms of the FRα and FRβ proteins with high
affinity (KD=6.26×10(-9) M and 4.33×10(-9) M, respectively). In vitro functional 
analysis of the anti-FRαβ showed that this MAb mediates complement-dependent
cytotoxicity, antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity, and antibody-dependent
cellular phagocytosis of FRα-expressing and FRβ-expressing cell lines. The
anti-FRαβ MAb is a promising therapeutic candidate for cancers in which
macrophages promote tumor progression.

DOI: 10.1089/mab.2014.0072 
PMID: 26090596  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

