

1208. Monoclon Antib Immunodiagn Immunother. 2015 Jun;34(3):181-90. doi:
10.1089/mab.2014.0072.

Production of a High-affinity Monoclonal Antibody Reactive with Folate Receptors 
Alpha and Beta.

Nagai T(1), Furusho Y(1), Li H(1), Hasui K(1), Matsukita S(2), Sueyoshi K(3),
Yanagi M(4), Hatae M(5), Takao S(6), Matsuyama T(6).

Author information: 
(1)1 Department of Immunology, Graduate School of Medical and Dental Sciences,
Kagoshima University , Kagoshima, Japan .
(2)2 Department of Clinical Pathology, Kagoshima Kousei-Ren Hospital , Kagoshima,
Japan .
(3)3 Department of Clinical Pathology, Kagoshima City Hospital , Kagoshima, Japan
.
(4)4 Department of Surgery, Kagoshima City Hospital , Kagoshima, Japan .
(5)5 Department of Obstetrics, Kagoshima City Hospital , Kagoshima, Japan .
(6)6 The Center for Advanced Biomedical Sciences and Swine Research, Kagoshima
University , Kagoshima, Japan .

Folate receptors α (FRα) and β (FRβ) are two isoforms of the cell surface
glycoprotein that binds folate. The expression of FRα is rare in normal cells and
elevated in cancer cells. Thus, FRα-based tumor-targeted therapy has been a focus
area of laboratory research and clinical trials. Recently, it was shown that a
significant fraction of tumor-associated macrophages expresses FRβ and that these
cells can enhance tumor growth. Although FRα and FRβ share 70% identity in their 
deduced amino acid sequence, a monoclonal antibody (MAb) reactive with both
receptors has not been developed. A MAb that can target both FRα-expressing
cancer cells and FRβ-expressing tumor-associated macrophages may provide a more
potent therapeutic tool for cancer than individual anti-FRα or anti-FRβ MAbs. In 
this study, we developed a MAb that recognizes both FRα and FRβ (anti-FRαβ). The 
anti-FRαβ specifically stained trophoblasts and macrophages from human placenta, 
synovial macrophages from rheumatoid arthritis patient, liver macrophages from
cynomolgus monkey and common marmoset, and cancer cells and tumor-associated
macrophages from ovary and lung carcinomas. Surface plasmon resonance showed that
the anti-FRαβ bound to soluble forms of the FRα and FRβ proteins with high
affinity (KD=6.26×10(-9) M and 4.33×10(-9) M, respectively). In vitro functional 
analysis of the anti-FRαβ showed that this MAb mediates complement-dependent
cytotoxicity, antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity, and antibody-dependent
cellular phagocytosis of FRα-expressing and FRβ-expressing cell lines. The
anti-FRαβ MAb is a promising therapeutic candidate for cancers in which
macrophages promote tumor progression.

DOI: 10.1089/mab.2014.0072 
PMID: 26090596  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1209. J Neurophysiol. 2015 Aug;114(2):1158-71. doi: 10.1152/jn.01003.2014. Epub 2015
Jun 17.

Responses of primate frontal cortex neurons during natural vocal communication.

Miller CT(1), Thomas AW(2), Nummela SU(3), de la Mothe LA(4).

Author information: 
(1)Cortical Systems and Behavior Laboratory, Department of Psychology, University
of California, San Diego, La Jolla, California; Neurosciences Graduate Program,
University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, California; corymiller@ucsd.edu.
(2)Cortical Systems and Behavior Laboratory, Department of Psychology, University
of California, San Diego, La Jolla, California; Helen Wills Neuroscience Graduate
Program, University of California, Berkeley, Berkeley, California; and.
(3)Cortical Systems and Behavior Laboratory, Department of Psychology, University
of California, San Diego, La Jolla, California;
(4)Department of Psychology, Tennessee State University, Nashville, Tennessee.

The role of primate frontal cortex in vocal communication and its significance in
language evolution have a controversial history. While evidence indicates that
vocalization processing occurs in ventrolateral prefrontal cortex neurons,
vocal-motor activity has been conjectured to be primarily subcortical and
suggestive of a distinctly different neural architecture from humans. Direct
evidence of neural activity during natural vocal communication is limited, as
previous studies were performed in chair-restrained animals. Here we recorded the
activity of single neurons across multiple regions of prefrontal and premotor
cortex while freely moving marmosets engaged in a natural vocal behavior known as
antiphonal calling. Our aim was to test whether neurons in marmoset frontal
cortex exhibited responses during vocal-signal processing and/or vocal-motor
production in the context of active, natural communication. We observed
motor-related changes in single neuron activity during vocal production, but
relatively weak sensory responses for vocalization processing during this natural
behavior. Vocal-motor responses occurred both prior to and during call production
and were typically coupled to the timing of each vocalization pulse. Despite the 
relatively weak sensory responses a population classifier was able to distinguish
between neural activity that occurred during presentations of vocalization
stimuli that elicited an antiphonal response and those that did not. These
findings are suggestive of the role that nonhuman primate frontal cortex neurons 
play in natural communication and provide an important foundation for more
explicit tests of the functional contributions of these neocortical areas during 
vocal behaviors.

Copyright © 2015 the American Physiological Society.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.01003.2014 
PMCID: PMC4725106
PMID: 26084912  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

