

1211. Vet Pathol. 2015 Sep;52(5):883-93. doi: 10.1177/0300985815589354. Epub 2015 Jun
15.

Bone Disease in the Common Marmoset: Radiographic and Histological Findings.

Olson EJ(1), Shaw GC(2), Hutchinson EK(3), Schultz-Darken N(4), Bolton ID(5),
Parker JB(6), Morrison JM(7), Baxter VK(8), Pate KA(8), Mankowski JL(8), Carlson 
CS(9).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Veterinary Population Medicine, University of Minnesota College 
of Veterinary Medicine, St Paul, MN, USA Both authors contributed equally to the 
work.
(2)Department of Molecular and Comparative Pathobiology, Johns Hopkins University
School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA Department of Pathobiological Sciences,
University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI, USA Both authors contributed equally to the
work.
(3)Department of Molecular and Comparative Pathobiology, Johns Hopkins University
School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA Division of Veterinary Resources, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, USA.
(4)Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin, Madison, 
WI, USA.
(5)Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin, Madison, 
WI, USA University of Texas Medical Branch, Galveston, TX, USA.
(6)Department of Veterinary Population Medicine, University of Minnesota College 
of Veterinary Medicine, St Paul, MN, USA.
(7)Department of Veterinary Population Medicine, University of Minnesota College 
of Veterinary Medicine, St Paul, MN, USA Hennepin County Medical Center,
Minneapolis, MN, USA.
(8)Department of Molecular and Comparative Pathobiology, Johns Hopkins University
School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(9)Department of Veterinary Population Medicine, University of Minnesota College 
of Veterinary Medicine, St Paul, MN, USA Carls099@umn.edu.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is a New World primate that is used in
biomedical research due to its small size and relative ease of handling compared 
with larger primates. Although bone disease in common marmosets is well
recognized, there are very few detailed descriptions in the literature that cover
the range of lesions seen in these animals. For all animals used to model human
disease, it is important to be aware of background lesions that may affect the
interpretation of study findings. This retrospective study details bone diseases 
encountered in marmoset breeding colonies at 2 different institutions. Affected
marmosets at Johns Hopkins University had lesions compatible with diagnoses of
rickets, fibrous osteodystrophy and osteopenia. Affected marmosets at the
Wisconsin National Primate Research Center exhibited severe lesions of
osteoclastic bone resorption and remodeling that had an unusual distribution and 
were not easily categorized into a known disease entity. The purpose of this
report is to document these naturally occurring skeletal lesions of common
marmosets and suggest an approach to evaluating skeletal disease in prospective
studies of these animals that will allow the most accurate diagnoses.

© The Author(s) 2015.

DOI: 10.1177/0300985815589354 
PMID: 26077785  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1212. J Comp Psychol. 2015 Aug;129(3):205-17. doi: 10.1037/a0039318. Epub 2015 Jun 15.

Behavioral and trait rating assessments of personality in common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus).

Iwanicki S(1), Lehmann J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Life Sciences, University of Roehampton.

The study of personality in animals is a rapidly growing scientific field and
numerous species have been reported to show consistent personality profiles. Much
animal personality research has focused on nonhuman primates, with the main
emphasis being placed on Old World primates, particularly rhesus macaques and
chimpanzees. So far, little work has been done on cooperatively breeding nonhuman
primates and New World species. Here, we study personality in the cooperatively
breeding common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) to broaden the taxonomic range of 
such research and to widen the perspective of comparative personality research.
We use behavioral data collection and observer trait ratings to assess marmoset
personality dimensions. The resulting behavioral and rating-derived personality
dimensions, when viewed in tandem, resemble the human five-factor model and
include extraversion, agreeableness, neuroticism, openness, and
conscientiousness. Correlations between the behavioral data and the observer
trait-rated personality components suggest that the personality construct of
common marmosets exhibits both convergent and discriminant validity. The finding 
of a distinct Conscientiousness component in this species extends previous
knowledge in comparative personality psychology and warrants reconsideration of
proposed taxonomic trait distributions.

(c) 2015 APA, all rights reserved).

DOI: 10.1037/a0039318 
PMID: 26075516  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

