

1213. Exp Hematol. 2015 Oct;43(10):901-911.e4. doi: 10.1016/j.exphem.2015.06.001. Epub 
2015 Jun 12.

Improved hematopoietic differentiation of primate embryonic stem cells by
inhibition of the PI3K-AKT pathway under defined conditions.

Nii T(1), Marumoto T(1), Kohara H(2), Yamaguchi S(1), Kawano H(1), Sasaki E(3),
Kametani Y(4), Tani K(5).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Molecular and Clinical Genetics, Department of Molecular Genetics,
Medical Institute of Bioregulation, Kyushu University, Fukuoka, Japan.
(2)Division of Molecular and Clinical Genetics, Department of Molecular Genetics,
Medical Institute of Bioregulation, Kyushu University, Fukuoka, Japan; Project
Division of ALA Advanced Medical Research, The Institute of Medical Science, The 
University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan.
(3)Central Institute for Experimental Animals, Kawasaki, Kanagawa, Japan.
(4)Department of Molecular Life Science, Tokai University School of Medicine,
Isehara, Kanagawa, Japan.
(5)Division of Molecular and Clinical Genetics, Department of Molecular Genetics,
Medical Institute of Bioregulation, Kyushu University, Fukuoka, Japan; Project
Division of ALA Advanced Medical Research, The Institute of Medical Science, The 
University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan. Electronic address: k-tani@ims.u-tokyo.ac.jp.

Hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells (HSPCs) derived from embryonic stem cells
(ESCs) and induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) have potential therapeutic
applications in humans. To assess the safety and efficacy of ESC/iPSC-based
therapies, reliable animal models are required prior to their clinical
application. The common marmoset (CM) was recently found to be a useful nonhuman 
primate animal model for drug development and safety assessment. However, a
method for the efficient hematopoietic differentiation of CM ESCs has not been
established. In this study, we developed a novel and efficient method for
differentiating CM ESCs into hematopoietic cells by transiently inhibiting the
phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K)-Protein kinase B (AKT) pathway, a critical
pathway that maintains the undifferentiated state of CM ESCs during embryoid body
(EB) formation. Compared with controls, transient inhibition of the P13K-AKT
pathway resulted in a threefold increase in the proportion of enriched CD34⁺
cells (p < 0.001) and an increase in the number of hematopoietic colonies on day 
8 of CM EB cultures. Moreover, number of blast colonies, number of hematopoietic 
progenitor cell populations of CD34⁺CD117⁺, CD34⁺CD45⁺, and CD43⁺CD45⁺ cells, and
expression of hematopoietic genes were increased by transient inhibition of the
PI3K-AKT pathway. We also demonstrated that the hematopoietic progenitor cell
population was increased by inhibition of PI3K in a human system. Our novel and
efficient ESC differentiation method might be useful for preclinical research on 
human hematopoietic disorders and may be efficiently translated to human
ESC/iPSC-based regenerative medicine.

Copyright © 2015 ISEH - International Society for Experimental Hematology.
Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exphem.2015.06.001 
PMID: 26073521  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1214. Growth Horm IGF Res. 2015 Aug;25(4):158-67. doi: 10.1016/j.ghir.2015.06.004. Epub
2015 Jun 6.

Coevolution of insulin-like growth factors, insulin and their receptors and
binding proteins in New World Monkeys.

Wallis M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Biochemistry and Biomedicine Group, School of Life Sciences, University of
Sussex, Falmer, Brighton BN1 9QG, UK. Electronic address: M.Wallis@sussex.ac.uk.

Previous work has shown that the evolution of both insulin-like growth factor 1
(IGF1) and insulin shows an episode of accelerated change on the branch leading
to New World Monkeys (NWM). Here the possibility that this is accompanied by a
corresponding episode of accelerated evolution of IGF1 receptor (IGF1R), insulin 
receptor (IR) and/or IGF binding proteins (IGFBPs) was investigated. Analysis of 
receptor sequences from a range of primates and some non-primate mammals showed
that accelerated evolution did indeed occur on this branch in the case of IGF1R
and IR, but not for the similar insulin receptor-related receptor (IRRR) which
does not bind insulin or IGF1. Marked accelerated evolution on this branch was
also seen for some IGFBPs, but not the mannose 6-phosphate/IGF2 receptor or
epidermal growth factor receptor. The rate of evolution slowed before divergence 
of the lineages leading to the NWM for which sequences are available (Callithrix 
and Saimiri). For the IGF1R and IR, the accelerated evolution was most marked for
the extracellular domains (ectodomains). Application of the branch-site method
showed dN/dS ratios significantly greater than 1.0 for both receptor ectodomains 
and for IGFBP1, and allowed identification of residues likely to have been
subject to selection. These residues were concentrated in the N-terminal half of 
the IGF1R ectodomain but the C-terminal half of the IR ectodomain, which could
have implications for the formation of hybrid receptors. Overall the results
suggest that adaptive coevolution of IGF1, insulin and their receptors and some
IGFBPs occurred during the evolution of NWM. For the most part, the residues that
change on this branch could not be associated with specific functional aspects
(ligand binding, receptor dimerization, glycosylation) and the physiological
significance of this coevolution remains to be established.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ghir.2015.06.004 
PMID: 26072449  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

