

1215. Stem Cell Res. 2015 Jul;15(1):141-50. doi: 10.1016/j.scr.2015.05.010. Epub 2015
May 27.

Marmoset induced pluripotent stem cells: Robust neural differentiation following 
pretreatment with dimethyl sulfoxide.

Qiu Z(1), Mishra A(1), Li M(1), Farnsworth SL(1), Guerra B(2), Lanford RE(2),
Hornsby PJ(3).

Author information: 
(1)South Texas Veterans Health Care System, San Antonio, TX, United States;
Department of Physiology/Barshop Institute, University of Texas Health Science
Center at San Antonio, United States.
(2)Southwest National Primate Research Center and Texas Biomedical Research
Institute, United States.
(3)South Texas Veterans Health Care System, San Antonio, TX, United States;
Department of Physiology/Barshop Institute, University of Texas Health Science
Center at San Antonio, United States. Electronic address: hornsby@uthscsa.edu.

The marmoset is an important nonhuman primate model for regenerative medicine.
For experimental autologous cell therapy based on induced pluripotent (iPS) cells
in the marmoset, cells must be able to undergo robust and reliable directed
differentiation that will not require customization for each specific iPS cell
clone. When marmoset iPS cells were aggregated in a hanging drop format for 3
days, followed by exposure to dual SMAD inhibitors and retinoic acid in monolayer
culture for 3 days, we found substantial variability in the response of different
iPS cell clones. However, when clones were pretreated with 0.05-2% dimethyl
sulfoxide (DMSO) for 24 hours, all clones showed a very similar maximal response 
to the directed differentiation scheme. Peak responses were observed at 0.5% DMSO
in two clones and at 1% DMSO in a third clone. When patterns of gene expression
were examined by microarray analysis, hierarchical clustering showed very similar
responses in all 3 clones when they were pretreated with optimal DMSO
concentrations. The change in phenotype following exposure to DMSO and the 6 day 
hanging drop/monolayer treatment was confirmed by immunocytochemistry. Analysis
of DNA content in DMSO-exposed cells indicated that it is unlikely that DMSO acts
by causing cells to exit from the cell cycle. This approach should be generally
valuable in the directed neural differentiation of pluripotent cells for
experimental cell therapy.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scr.2015.05.010 
PMCID: PMC4516655
PMID: 26070112  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1216. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 10;10(6):e0127268. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0127268.
eCollection 2015.

Natural and Anthropogenic Hybridization in Two Species of Eastern Brazilian
Marmosets (Callithrix jacchus and C. penicillata).

Malukiewicz J(1), Boere V(2), Fuzessy LF(3), Grativol AD(4), de Oliveira E Silva 
I(5), Pereira LC(6), Ruiz-Miranda CR(4), Valença YM(7), Stone AC(8).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Bioquímica e Biologia Molecular, Universidade Federal de
Viçosa, Viçosa MG, Brazil; School of Human Evolution and Social Change, Arizona
State University, Tempe, Arizona, 85287, United States of America.
(2)Departamento de Bioquímica e Biologia Molecular, Universidade Federal de
Viçosa, Viçosa MG, Brazil.
(3)Department of Plant Biology, Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, Belo
Horizonte MG, Brazil.
(4)Ciências Ambientias, Centro de Biociências e Biotecnologia, Universidade
Estadual do Norte Fluminense, Campos dos Goytacazes RJ, Brazil.
(5)Departamento de Biologia Animal, Universidade Federal de Viçosa, Viçosa MG,
Brazil.
(6)Centro de Conservação e Manejo de Fauna da Caatinga, Universidade Federal do
Vale do São Francisco, Petrolina PE, Brazil.
(7)Centro de Reabilitação de Animais Silvestres do Santuário dos Três Reinos,
Recife PE, Brazil.
(8)School of Human Evolution and Social Change, Arizona State University, Tempe, 
Arizona, 85287, United States of America.

Animal hybridization is well documented, but evolutionary outcomes and
conservation priorities often differ for natural and anthropogenic hybrids. Among
primates, an order with many endangered species, the two contexts can be hard to 
disentangle from one another, which carries important conservation implications. 
Callithrix marmosets give us a unique glimpse of genetic hybridization effects
under distinct natural and human-induced contexts. Here, we use a 44 autosomal
microsatellite marker panel to examine genome-wide admixture levels and
introgression at a natural C. jacchus and C. penicillata species border along the
São Francisco River in NE Brazil and in an area of Rio de Janeiro state where
humans introduced these species exotically. Additionally, we describe for the
first time autosomal genetic diversity in wild C. penicillata and expand previous
C. jacchus genetic data. We characterize admixture within the natural zone as
bimodal where hybrid ancestry is biased toward one parental species or the other.
We also show evidence that São Francisco River islands are gateways for
bidirectional gene flow across the species border. In the anthropogenic zone,
marmosets essentially form a hybrid swarm with intermediate levels of admixture, 
likely from the absence of strong physical barriers to interspecific breeding.
Our data show that while hybridization can occur naturally, the presence of
physical, even if leaky, barriers to hybridization is important for maintaining
species genetic integrity. Thus, we suggest further study of hybridization under 
different contexts to set well informed conservation guidelines for hybrid
populations that often fit somewhere between "natural" and "man-made."

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0127268 
PMCID: PMC4464756
PMID: 26061111  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

