

1218. J Anat. 2015 Jul;227(1):72-80. doi: 10.1111/joa.12327. Epub 2015 Jun 5.

Comparative analysis of Meissner's corpuscles in the fingertips of primates.

Verendeev A(1), Thomas C(1), McFarlin SC(1), Hopkins WD(2)(3), Phillips KA(4),
Sherwood CC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anthropology, Center for the Advanced Study of Human
Paleobiology, The George Washington University, Washington, DC, USA.
(2)Neuroscience Institute and Language Center, Georgia State University, Atlanta,
GA, USA.
(3)Division of Developmental and Cognitive Neuroscience, Yerkes National Primate 
Research Center, Atlanta, GA, USA.
(4)Department of Psychology, Trinity University, San Antonio, TX, USA.

Meissner's corpuscles (MCs) are tactile mechanoreceptors found in the glabrous
skin of primates, including fingertips. These receptors are characterized by
sensitivity to light touch, and therefore might be associated with the evolution 
of manipulative abilities of the hands in primates. We examined MCs in different 
primate species, including common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus, n = 5), baboon
(Papio anubis, n = 2), rhesus macaque (Macaca mulatta, n = 3), chimpanzee (Pan
troglodytes, n = 3), bonobo (Pan paniscus, n = 1) and human (Homo sapiens,
n = 8). Fingertips of the first, second and fourth digits were collected from
both hands of specimens, dissected and histologically stained using hematoxylin
and eosin. The density (MCs per 1 mm(2) ) and the size (cross-sectional diameter 
of MCs) were quantified. Overall, there were no differences in the densities of
MCs or their size among the digits or between the hands for any species examined.
However, MCs varied across species. We found a trend for higher densities of MCs 
in macaques and humans compared with chimpanzees and bonobos; moreover, apes had 
larger MCs than monkeys. We further examined whether the density or size of MCs
varied as a function of body mass, measures of dexterity and dietary frugivory.
Among these variables, only body size accounted for a significant amount of
variation in the size of MCs.

© 2015 Anatomical Society.

DOI: 10.1111/joa.12327 
PMCID: PMC4475360
PMID: 26053332  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1219. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 5;10(6):e0129319. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0129319.
eCollection 2015.

Parturition Signaling by Visual Cues in Female Marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Moreira LA(1), de Oliveira DG(2), de Sousa MB(3), Pessoa DM(4).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Sensory Ecology, Department of Physiology, Federal University of
Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, RN, Brazil; Laboratory of Behavioral Endocrinology,
Department of Physiology, Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, RN,
Brazil; Laboratory for the Advanced Study of Primates, Department of Physiology, 
Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, RN, Brazil.
(2)Laboratory of Neuroscience and Behavior, Department of Physiological Sciences,
University of Brasília, Brasília, DF, Brazil.
(3)Laboratory of Behavioral Endocrinology, Department of Physiology, Federal
University of Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, RN, Brazil; Laboratory for the Advanced
Study of Primates, Department of Physiology, Federal University of Rio Grande do 
Norte, Natal, RN, Brazil; Brain Institute, Federal University of Rio Grande do
Norte, Natal, RN, Brazil.
(4)Laboratory of Sensory Ecology, Department of Physiology, Federal University of
Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, RN, Brazil; Laboratory for the Advanced Study of
Primates, Department of Physiology, Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte,
Natal, RN, Brazil.

New World monkeys have polymorphic color vision, in which all males and some
females are dichromats, while most females are trichromats. There is little
consensus about which selective pressures fashioned primate color vision,
although detection of food, mates and predators has been hypothesized. Behavioral
evidence shows that males from different species of Neotropical primates seem to 
perceive the timing of female conception and gestation, although, no signals
fulfilling this function have been identified. Therefore, we used visual models
to test the hypothesis that female marmosets show chromatic and/or achromatic
cues that may indicate the time of parturition for male and female conspecifics. 
By recording the reflectance spectra of female marmosets' (Callithrix jacchus)
sexual skin, and running chromatic and achromatic discrimination models, we found
that both variables fluctuate during the weeks that precede and succeed
parturition, forming "U" and inverted "U" patterns for chromatic and achromatic
contrast, respectively. We suggest that variation in skin chroma and luminance
might be used by female helpers and dominant females to identify the timing of
birth, while achromatic variations may be used as clues by potential fathers to
identify pregnancy stage in females and prepare for paternal burdens as well as
to detect oestrus in the early post-partum period.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0129319 
PMCID: PMC4457725
PMID: 26047350  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

