

1219. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 5;10(6):e0129319. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0129319.
eCollection 2015.

Parturition Signaling by Visual Cues in Female Marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Moreira LA(1), de Oliveira DG(2), de Sousa MB(3), Pessoa DM(4).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Sensory Ecology, Department of Physiology, Federal University of
Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, RN, Brazil; Laboratory of Behavioral Endocrinology,
Department of Physiology, Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, RN,
Brazil; Laboratory for the Advanced Study of Primates, Department of Physiology, 
Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, RN, Brazil.
(2)Laboratory of Neuroscience and Behavior, Department of Physiological Sciences,
University of Brasília, Brasília, DF, Brazil.
(3)Laboratory of Behavioral Endocrinology, Department of Physiology, Federal
University of Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, RN, Brazil; Laboratory for the Advanced
Study of Primates, Department of Physiology, Federal University of Rio Grande do 
Norte, Natal, RN, Brazil; Brain Institute, Federal University of Rio Grande do
Norte, Natal, RN, Brazil.
(4)Laboratory of Sensory Ecology, Department of Physiology, Federal University of
Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, RN, Brazil; Laboratory for the Advanced Study of
Primates, Department of Physiology, Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte,
Natal, RN, Brazil.

New World monkeys have polymorphic color vision, in which all males and some
females are dichromats, while most females are trichromats. There is little
consensus about which selective pressures fashioned primate color vision,
although detection of food, mates and predators has been hypothesized. Behavioral
evidence shows that males from different species of Neotropical primates seem to 
perceive the timing of female conception and gestation, although, no signals
fulfilling this function have been identified. Therefore, we used visual models
to test the hypothesis that female marmosets show chromatic and/or achromatic
cues that may indicate the time of parturition for male and female conspecifics. 
By recording the reflectance spectra of female marmosets' (Callithrix jacchus)
sexual skin, and running chromatic and achromatic discrimination models, we found
that both variables fluctuate during the weeks that precede and succeed
parturition, forming "U" and inverted "U" patterns for chromatic and achromatic
contrast, respectively. We suggest that variation in skin chroma and luminance
might be used by female helpers and dominant females to identify the timing of
birth, while achromatic variations may be used as clues by potential fathers to
identify pregnancy stage in females and prepare for paternal burdens as well as
to detect oestrus in the early post-partum period.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0129319 
PMCID: PMC4457725
PMID: 26047350  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1220. J Am Assoc Lab Anim Sci. 2015 May;54(3):273-9.

Advantages and Risks of Husbandry and Housing Changes to Improve Animal Wellbeing
in a Breeding Colony of Common Marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Bakker J(1), Ouwerling B(2), Heidt PJ(2), Kondova I(2), Langermans JA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Animal Science Department, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Rijswijk, The
Netherlands. bakker@bprc.nl.
(2)Animal Science Department, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Rijswijk, The
Netherlands.

Between 1975 and 2014, housing conditions for laboratory-housed marmosets changed
dramatically after the introduction of new guidelines designed to improve their
care and wellbeing. According to these guidelines, our facility provided
marmosets with outside enclosures, switched to deep litter as bedding material,
and discontinued the use of disinfectant agents in animal enclosures. However,
both deep litter and access to outside enclosures hypothetically increase the
risk of potential exposure to pathogenic microorganisms. We evaluated whether
these housing and husbandry modifications constituted an increased veterinary
risk for laboratory-housed common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). After the
animals had been exposed to these new housing conditions for 2.5 y, we examined
their intestinal bacterial flora and feces, the deep litter, and insects present 
in the housing. In addition, we assessed the marmosets' general health and the
effect of outdoor housing on, for example, vitamin D levels. Although numerous
bacterial strains--from nonpathogenic to potentially pathogenic--were cultured,
we noted no increase in illness, mortality, or breeding problems related to this 
environmental microflora. Housing laboratory marmosets in large enriched cages,
with both indoor and outdoor enclosures, providing them with deep litter, and
eliminating the use of disinfectants present an increased veterinary risk.
However, after evaluating all of the collected data, we estimate that the
veterinary risk of the new housing conditions is minimal to none in terms of
clinical disease, disease outbreaks, abnormal behavior, and negative effects on
reproduction.


PMCID: PMC4460939
PMID: 26045452  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

