

122. Aging Cell. 2021 Jul;20(7):e13407. doi: 10.1111/acel.13407. Epub 2021 Jun 12.

Chloride channel accessory 1 integrates chloride channel activity and mTORC1 in
aging-related kidney injury.

Lee HJ(1), Donati A(1), Feliers D(1), Sun Y(2), Ding Y(3), Madesh M(1), Salmon
AB(4)(5)(6)(7), Ikeno Y(3)(4)(6), Ross C(8)(9), O'Connor CL(10), Ju W(10), Bitzer
M(10), Chen Y(11)(12), Choudhury GG(1)(6)(7), Singh BB(2), Sharma K(1)(6),
Kasinath BS(1)(5)(6)(7).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Center for Renal Precision Medicine, University of
Texas Health, San Antonio, TX, USA.
(2)Department of Periodontics, University of Texas Health, San Antonio, TX, USA.
(3)Department of Pathology, University of Texas Health, San Antonio, TX, USA.
(4)Department of Molecular Medicine, University of Texas Health, San Antonio, TX,
USA.
(5)Barshop Institute for Longevity and Aging Studies, University of Texas Health,
San Antonio, TX, USA.
(6)South Texas Veterans Health Care System, San Antonio, TX, USA.
(7)Geriatric Research, Education & Clinical Center, South Texas Veterans Health
Care System, San Antonio, TX, USA.
(8)Texas Biomedical Research Institute, Southwest National Primate Research
Center, San Antonio, TX, USA.
(9)Department of Science and Mathematics, Texas A&M University San Antonio, San
Antonio, TX, USA.
(10)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA.
(11)Department of Population Health Sciences, University of Texas Health, San
Antonio, TX, USA.
(12)Greehey Children's Cancer Research Institute, University of Texas Health, San
Antonio, TX, USA.

The mechanism of kidney injury in aging are not well understood. In order to
identify hitherto unknown pathways of aging-related kidney injury, we performed
RNA-Seq on kidney extracts of young and aged mice. Expression of chloride (Cl)
channel accessory 1 (CLCA1) mRNA and protein was increased in the kidneys of aged
mice. Immunostaining showed a marked increase in CLCLA1 expression in the
proximal tubules of the kidney from aged mice. Increased kidney CLCA1 gene
expression also correlated with aging in marmosets and in a human cohort. In
aging mice, increased renal cortical CLCA1 content was associated with hydrogen
sulfide (H2 S) deficiency, which was ameliorated by administering sodium
hydrosulfide (NaHS), a source of H2 S. In order to study whether increased CLCA1 
expression leads to injury phenotype and the mechanisms involved, stable
transfection of proximal tubule epithelial cells overexpressing human CLCA1
(hCLCA1) was performed. Overexpression of hCLCA1 augmented Cl- current via the
Ca++ -dependent Cl- channel TMEM16A (anoctamin-1) by patch-clamp studies. hCLCA1 
overexpression also increased the expression of fibronectin, a matrix protein,
and induced the senescence-associated secretory phenotype (SASP). Mechanistic
studies underlying these changes showed that hCLCA1 overexpression leads to
inhibition of AMPK activity and stimulation of mTORC1 as cellular signaling
determinants of injury. Both TMEM16A inhibitor and NaHS reversed these signaling 
events and prevented changes in fibronectin and SASP. We conclude that
CLCA1-TMEM16A-Cl- current pathway is a novel mediator of kidney injury in aging
that is regulated by endogenous H2 S.

© 2021 The Authors. Aging Cell published by Anatomical Society and John Wiley &
Sons Ltd. This article is a U.S. Government work and is in the public domain in
the USA.

DOI: 10.1111/acel.13407 
PMCID: PMC8282273
PMID: 34118180  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


123. PLoS One. 2021 Jun 9;16(6):e0252093. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0252093.
eCollection 2021.

Womb to womb: Maternal litter size and birth weight but not adult characteristics
predict early neonatal death of offspring in the common marmoset monkey.

Rutherford JN(1), Ross CN(2), Ziegler T(3), Burke LA(4), Steffen AD(5), Sills
A(6), Layne Colon D(2), deMartelly VA(7), Narapareddy LR(8), Tardif SD(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Human Development Nursing Science, College of Nursing,
University of Illinois Chicago, Chicago, Illinois, United States of America.
(2)Southwest National Primate Research Center, Texas Biomedical Research
Institute, San Antonio, Texas, United States of America.
(3)Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin, Madison, 
Wisconsin, United States of America.
(4)Office for Research Facilitation, College of Nursing, University of Illinois
Chicago, Chicago, Illinois, United States of America.
(5)Department of Population Health Nursing Science, College of Nursing,
University of Illinois Chicago, Chicago, Illinois, United States of America.
(6)Barshop Institute for Longevity and Aging Studies, University of Texas Health 
Science Center at San Antonio, San Antonio, Texas, United States of America.
(7)Department of Biobehavioral Health Nursing Science, College of Nursing,
University of Illinois Chicago, Chicago, Illinois, United States of America.
(8)Nell Hodgson Woodruff School of Nursing, Emory University, Atlanta, Georgia,
United States of America.

A singular focus on maternal health at the time of a pregnancy leaves much about 
perinatal mortality unexplained, especially when there is growing evidence for
maternal early life effects. Further, lumping stillbirth and early neonatal death
into a single category of perinatal mortality may obscure different causes and
thus different avenues of screening and prevention. The common marmoset monkey
(Callithrix jacchus), a litter-bearing nonhuman primate, is an ideal species in
which to study the independent effects of a mother's early life and adult
phenotypes on pregnancy outcomes. We tested two hypotheses in 59 marmoset
pregnancies at the Southwest National Primate Research Center and the Barshop
Institute for Longevity and Aging Studies. We explored 1) whether pregnancy
outcomes were predicted independently by maternal adult weight versus maternal
litter size and birth weight, and 2) whether stillbirth and early neonatal death 
were differentially predicted by maternal variables. No maternal characteristics 
predicted stillbirth and no maternal adult characteristics predicted early
neonatal death. In univariate Poisson models, triplet-born females had a
significantly increased rate of early neonatal death (IRR[se] = 3.00[1.29], p =
0.011), while higher birth weight females had a decreased rate (IRR[se] =
0.89[0.05], p = 0.039). In multivariate Poisson models, maternal litter size
remained an independent predictor, explaining 13% of the variance in early
neonatal death. We found that the later in the first week those neonates died,
the more weight they lost. Together these findings suggest that triplet-born and 
low birth weight females have distinct developmental trajectories underlying
greater rates of infant loss, losses that we suggest may be attributable to
developmental disruption of infant feeding and carrying. Our findings of early
life contributions to adult pregnancy outcomes in the common marmoset disrupt
mother-blaming narratives of pregnancy outcomes in humans. These narratives hold 
that the pregnant person is solely responsible for pregnancy outcomes and the
health of their children, independent of socioecological factors, a moralistic
framing that has shaped clinical pregnancy management. It is necessary to
differentiate temporal trajectories and causes of perinatal loss and view them as
embedded in external processes to develop screening, diagnostic, and treatment
tools that consider the full arc of a mother's lived experience, from womb to
womb and beyond.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0252093 
PMCID: PMC8189522
PMID: 34106943  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.

