

1239. Comp Med. 2015 Apr;65(2):140-3.

Comparative Immunohistochemistry of Placental Corticotropin-Releasing Hormone and
the Transcription Factor RelB-NFκB2 Between Humans and Nonhuman Primates.

Rosen T(1), Schulkin J(2), Power M(3), Tadesse S(4), Norwitz ER(4), Wen Z(5),
Wang B(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics, Gynecology, and Reproductive Sciences, Rutgers
Robert Wood Johnson Medical School, New Brunswick, New Jersey, USA.
rosentj@rwjms.rutgers.edu.
(2)Research Department, American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists,
Washington, District of Columbia, USA; Department of Neuroscience, Georgetown
University, Washington, District of Columbia, USA.
(3)Nutrition Laboratory, Conservation Ecology Center, Smithsonian Conservation
Biology Institute, National Zoological Park, Washington, District of Columbia,
USA.
(4)Tufts University School of Medicine, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, 
Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(5)Department of Pathology, Saint Peter's University Hospital, New Brunswick, New
Jersey, USA.
(6)Department of Obstetrics, Gynecology, and Reproductive Sciences, Rutgers
Robert Wood Johnson Medical School, New Brunswick, New Jersey, USA.
wangbi@rwjms.rutgers.edu.

The transcription factor RelB-NFκB2, activated by the noncanonical NFκB pathway, 
positively regulates corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) and prostaglandin
production in the term human placenta and may play an important role in the
timing of human parturition. Here we explored whether RelB-NFκB2 signaling plays 
a role in parturition in nonhuman anthropoid primates. We performed
immunohistochemical staining to assess the correlation between CRH and nuclear
activity of RelB-NFκB2 heterodimers in term placentas from humans, 3 catarrhine
primate species, and a single platyrrhine primate species. Consistent with our
previous studies, the human placenta showed cytoplasmic staining for CRH and
nuclear staining for RelB-NFκB2. Similar staining patterns were noted in the 3
catarrhine primates (chimpanzee, baboon, and rhesus macaque). The platyrrhine
(marmoset) placentas stained positively for CRH and RelB but not for NFκB2.
Catarrhine (but not platyrrhine) nonhuman primate term placentas demonstrate the 
same CRH staining and nuclear localization patterns of RelB and NFκB2 as does
human placenta. These results suggest that catarrhine primates, particularly
rhesus macaques, may serve as useful animal models to study the biologic
significance of the noncanonical NFκB pathway in human pregnancy.


PMCID: PMC4408900
PMID: 25926400  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1240. J Neurophysiol. 2015 Jul;114(1):274-83. doi: 10.1152/jn.00228.2015. Epub 2015 Apr
29.

Cooperative vocal control in marmoset monkeys via vocal feedback.

Choi JY(1), Takahashi DY(1), Ghazanfar AA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Princeton Neuroscience Institute, Princeton University, Princeton, New Jersey;
Department of Psychology, Princeton University, Princeton, New Jersey; and.
(2)Princeton Neuroscience Institute, Princeton University, Princeton, New Jersey;
Department of Psychology, Princeton University, Princeton, New Jersey; and
Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Princeton University, Princeton, 
New Jersey asifg@princeton.edu.

Humans adjust speech amplitude as a function of distance from a listener; we do
so in a manner that would compensate for such distance. This ability is presumed 
to be the product of high-level sociocognitive skills. Nonhuman primates are
thought to lack such socially related flexibility in vocal production. Using
predictions from a simple arousal-based model whereby vocal feedback from a
conspecific modulates the drive to produce a vocalization, we tested whether
another primate exhibits this type of cooperative vocal control. We conducted a
playback experiment with marmoset monkeys and simulated "far-away" and "nearby"
conspecifics using contact calls that differed in sound intensity. We found that 
marmoset monkeys increased the amplitude of their contact calls and produced such
calls with shorter response latencies toward more distant conspecifics. The same 
was not true in response to changing levels of background noise. To account for
how simulated conspecific distance can change both the amplitude and timing of
vocal responses, we developed a model that incorporates dynamic interactions
between the auditory system and limbic "drive" systems. Overall, our data show
that, like humans, marmoset monkeys cooperatively control the acoustics of their 
vocalizations according to changes in listener distance, increasing the
likelihood that a conspecific will hear their call. However, we propose that such
cooperative vocal control is a system property that does not necessitate any
particularly advanced sociocognitive skill. At least in marmosets, this vocal
control can be parsimoniously explained by the regulation of arousal states
across two interacting individuals via vocal feedback.

Copyright © 2015 the American Physiological Society.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00228.2015 
PMCID: PMC4507967
PMID: 25925323  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

