

1243. Proc Biol Sci. 2015 May 22;282(1807):20150069. doi: 10.1098/rspb.2015.0069.

Vocal turn-taking in a non-human primate is learned during ontogeny.

Chow CP(1), Mitchell JF(2), Miller CT(3).

Author information: 
(1)Cortical Systems and Behavior Laboratory, Department of Psychology, University
of California, San Diego, La Jolla, CA, USA.
(2)Cortical Systems and Behavior Laboratory, Department of Psychology, University
of California, San Diego, La Jolla, CA, USA Department of Brain and Cognitive
Sciences, University of Rochester, Rochester, NY, USA.
(3)Cortical Systems and Behavior Laboratory, Department of Psychology, University
of California, San Diego, La Jolla, CA, USA Neurosciences Graduate Program,
University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, CA, USA corymiller@ucsd.edu.

Conversational turn-taking is an integral part of language development, as it
reflects a confluence of social factors that mitigate communication. Humans
coordinate the timing of speech based on the behaviour of another speaker, a
behaviour that is learned during infancy. While adults in several primate species
engage in vocal turn-taking, the degree to which similar learning processes
underlie its development in these non-human species or are unique to language is 
not clear. We recorded the natural vocal interactions of common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus) occurring with both their sibling twins and parents over the
first year of life and observed at least two parallels with language development.
First, marmoset turn-taking is a learned vocal behaviour. Second, marmoset
parents potentially played a direct role in guiding the development of
turn-taking by providing feedback to their offspring when errors occurred during 
vocal interactions similarly to what has been observed in humans. Though
species-differences are also evident, these findings suggest that similar
learning mechanisms may be implemented in the ontogeny of vocal turn-taking
across our Order, a finding that has important implications for our understanding
of language evolution.

© 2015 The Author(s) Published by the Royal Society. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1098/rspb.2015.0069 
PMCID: PMC4424641
PMID: 25904663  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1244. Psychoneuroendocrinology. 2015 Jul;57:93-101. doi:
10.1016/j.psyneuen.2015.03.019. Epub 2015 Apr 6.

Reunion behavior after social separation is associated with enhanced HPA recovery
in young marmoset monkeys.

Taylor JH(1), Mustoe AC(2), Hochfelder B(2), French JA(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology - University of Nebraska at Omaha, United States;
Callitrichid Research Center, United States. Electronic address:
jhtaylor@unomaha.edu.
(2)Department of Psychology - University of Nebraska at Omaha, United States;
Callitrichid Research Center, United States.
(3)Department of Psychology - University of Nebraska at Omaha, United States;
Callitrichid Research Center, United States; Department of Biology - University
of Nebraska at Omaha, United States.

The relationships that offspring develop with caregivers can exert a powerful
influence on behavior and physiology, including the
hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis. In many mammalian species,
offspring-caregiver relationships are largely limited to interactions with
mother. Marmoset monkeys receive care in early life from multiple classes of
caregivers in addition to the mother, including fathers and siblings. We
evaluated whether affiliative social interactions with family members in
marmosets were associated with differences in cortisol reactivity to a short-term
social separation stressor, and whether these variations in affiliative
interactions upon reunion predicted how well marmosets subsequently regulated HPA
axis function after cessation of the stressor. Marmosets were separated from the 
family for 8h at three developmental time points (6-, 12-, and 18-months of age),
and interactions of the separated marmoset with the family group were recorded
during reunion. Urinary cortisol was measured prior to social separation, every
2h during the separation, and on the morning after separation. Heightened
cortisol reactivity during social separation did not predict affiliative social
behavior upon reunion but higher rates of grooming and play behavior predicted
enhanced HPA regulation. Marmosets with higher rates of grooming and play with
family members upon reunion had post-stress cortisol levels closer to
preseparation baseline than marmosets with lower rates of affiliative reunion
behavior. Combined with previous research showing the early programming effects
of social interactions with caregivers, as well as the buffering effect of a
close social partner during stress, the current study highlights the high degree 
of behavioral and HPA adaptability to social stressors across development in
marmoset monkeys.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.psyneuen.2015.03.019 
PMCID: PMC4437813
PMID: 25900596  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

