

1244. Psychoneuroendocrinology. 2015 Jul;57:93-101. doi:
10.1016/j.psyneuen.2015.03.019. Epub 2015 Apr 6.

Reunion behavior after social separation is associated with enhanced HPA recovery
in young marmoset monkeys.

Taylor JH(1), Mustoe AC(2), Hochfelder B(2), French JA(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology - University of Nebraska at Omaha, United States;
Callitrichid Research Center, United States. Electronic address:
jhtaylor@unomaha.edu.
(2)Department of Psychology - University of Nebraska at Omaha, United States;
Callitrichid Research Center, United States.
(3)Department of Psychology - University of Nebraska at Omaha, United States;
Callitrichid Research Center, United States; Department of Biology - University
of Nebraska at Omaha, United States.

The relationships that offspring develop with caregivers can exert a powerful
influence on behavior and physiology, including the
hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis. In many mammalian species,
offspring-caregiver relationships are largely limited to interactions with
mother. Marmoset monkeys receive care in early life from multiple classes of
caregivers in addition to the mother, including fathers and siblings. We
evaluated whether affiliative social interactions with family members in
marmosets were associated with differences in cortisol reactivity to a short-term
social separation stressor, and whether these variations in affiliative
interactions upon reunion predicted how well marmosets subsequently regulated HPA
axis function after cessation of the stressor. Marmosets were separated from the 
family for 8h at three developmental time points (6-, 12-, and 18-months of age),
and interactions of the separated marmoset with the family group were recorded
during reunion. Urinary cortisol was measured prior to social separation, every
2h during the separation, and on the morning after separation. Heightened
cortisol reactivity during social separation did not predict affiliative social
behavior upon reunion but higher rates of grooming and play behavior predicted
enhanced HPA regulation. Marmosets with higher rates of grooming and play with
family members upon reunion had post-stress cortisol levels closer to
preseparation baseline than marmosets with lower rates of affiliative reunion
behavior. Combined with previous research showing the early programming effects
of social interactions with caregivers, as well as the buffering effect of a
close social partner during stress, the current study highlights the high degree 
of behavioral and HPA adaptability to social stressors across development in
marmoset monkeys.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.psyneuen.2015.03.019 
PMCID: PMC4437813
PMID: 25900596  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1245. Sci Rep. 2015 Apr 16;5:9622. doi: 10.1038/srep09622.

Opposite effects of male and female helpers on social tolerance and proactive
prosociality in callitrichid family groups.

Burkart JM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Anthropological Institute and Museum, University of Zurich,
Winterthurerstrasse 190, 8057 Zürich, Switzerland.

Across a broad variety of primate species (including lemurs, New World monkeys,
Old World monkeys, and apes), proactive prosociality and social tolerance are
linked to allomaternal care, reaching the highest levels in the cooperatively
breeding callitrichid monkeys and humans. However, considerable variation exists 
within callitrichids, and the aim of this study was to identify factors that
explain this variation. Male and female callitrichids pursue different
reproductive strategies, leading males to play a more prominent role in
allomothering. We thus hypothesised that prosociality and tolerance may be
affected by group composition and sex differences. We analysed social tolerance
and proactive prosociality data in 49 common marmosets and found that the number 
of female helpers in a group was negatively correlated with group-level
prosociality and tolerance. At the individual level, rearing experience or age
enhanced prosociality in male, but not in female helpers. These findings are
consistent with the more ambivalent role of female helpers in infant rearing.
Adding data from 5 cotton-top and 5 lion tamarins strengthened this pattern. The 
same factor which explains variation in prosociality and tolerance across primate
species, i.e. allomaternal care, is therefore also linked to variation within
common marmosets, and presumably callitrichid monkeys in general.

DOI: 10.1038/srep09622 
PMCID: PMC4399387
PMID: 25881136  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

