

126. Front Mol Biosci. 2021 May 17;8:660959. doi: 10.3389/fmolb.2021.660959.
eCollection 2021.

Alternative Animal Models of Aging Research.

Holtze S(1), Gorshkova E(2)(3), Braude S(4), Cellerino A(5)(6), Dammann P(7)(8), 
Hildebrandt TB(1)(9), Hoeflich A(10), Hoffmann S(11), Koch P(12), Terzibasi
Tozzini E(13), Skulachev M(14), Skulachev VP(14), Sahm A(11).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Reproduction Management, Leibniz Institute for Zoo and Wildlife 
Research, Berlin, Germany.
(2)Center for Precision Genome Editing and Genetic Technologies for Biomedicine, 
Engelhardt Institute of Molecular Biology, Russian Academy of Sciences, Moscow,
Russia.
(3)Faculty of Biology, Lomonosov Moscow State University, Moscow, Russia.
(4)Department of Biology, Washington University in St. Louis, St. Louis, MO,
United States.
(5)Biology Laboratory, Scuola Normale Superiore, Pisa, Italy.
(6)Leibniz Institute on Aging - Fritz Lipmann Institute, Jena, Germany.
(7)Department of General Zoology, Faculty of Biology, University of
Duisburg-Essen, Essen, Germany.
(8)Central Animal Laboratory, University Hospital Essen, Essen, Germany.
(9)Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Free University of Berlin, Berlin, Germany.
(10)Division Signal Transduction, Institute for Genome Biology, Leibniz Institute
for Farm Animal Biology, Dummerstorf, Germany.
(11)Computational Biology Group, Leibniz Institute on Aging - Fritz Lipmann
Institute, Jena, Germany.
(12)Core Facility Life Science Computing, Leibniz Institute on Aging - Fritz
Lipmann Institute, Jena, Germany.
(13)Department of Biology and Evolution of Marine Organisms, Stazione Zoologica
Anton Dohrn, Naples, Italy.
(14)Belozersky Institute of Physico-Chemical Biology, Lomonosov Moscow State
University, Moscow, Russia.

Most research on mechanisms of aging is being conducted in a very limited number 
of classical model species, i.e., laboratory mouse (Mus musculus), rat (Rattus
norvegicus domestica), the common fruit fly (Drosophila melanogaster) and
roundworm (Caenorhabditis elegans). The obvious advantages of using these models 
are access to resources such as strains with known genetic properties,
high-quality genomic and transcriptomic sequencing data, versatile experimental
manipulation capabilities including well-established genome editing tools, as
well as extensive experience in husbandry. However, this approach may introduce
interpretation biases due to the specific characteristics of the investigated
species, which may lead to inappropriate, or even false, generalization. For
example, it is still unclear to what extent knowledge of aging mechanisms gained 
in short-lived model organisms is transferable to long-lived species such as
humans. In addition, other specific adaptations favoring a long and healthy life 
from the immense evolutionary toolbox may be entirely missed. In this review, we 
summarize the specific characteristics of emerging animal models that have
attracted the attention of gerontologists, we provide an overview of the
available data and resources related to these models, and we summarize important 
insights gained from them in recent years. The models presented include
short-lived ones such as killifish (Nothobranchius furzeri), long-lived ones such
as primates (Callithrix jacchus, Cebus imitator, Macaca mulatta), bathyergid
mole-rats (Heterocephalus glaber, Fukomys spp.), bats (Myotis spp.), birds, olms 
(Proteus anguinus), turtles, greenland sharks, bivalves (Arctica islandica), and 
potentially non-aging ones such as Hydra and Planaria.

Copyright © 2021 Holtze, Gorshkova, Braude, Cellerino, Dammann, Hildebrandt,
Hoeflich, Hoffmann, Koch, Terzibasi Tozzini, Skulachev, Skulachev and Sahm.

DOI: 10.3389/fmolb.2021.660959 
PMCID: PMC8166319
PMID: 34079817 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


127. Cereb Cortex. 2021 Aug 26;31(10):4765-4780. doi: 10.1093/cercor/bhab121.

Differential Contribution of Anterior and Posterior Midcingulate Subregions to
Distal and Proximal Threat Reactivity in Marmosets.

Rahman SS(1)(2), Mulvihill K(1), Wood CM(1)(2), Quah SKL(1)(2), Horst NK(3)(2),
Clarke HF(1)(2), Cockcroft GJ(1)(2), Santangelo AM(1)(2), Roberts AC(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Development and Neuroscience, University of
Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 3DY, UK.
(2)Behavioural and Clinical Neuroscience Institute, University of Cambridge,
Cambridge CB2 3EB, UK.
(3)Department of Psychology, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.

The midcingulate cortex (MCC) is associated with cognition and emotion
regulation. Structural and correlational functional evidence suggests that rather
than being homogenous, the MCC may have dissociable functions that can be mapped 
onto distinct subregions. In this study, we use the marmoset monkey to causally
investigate the contributions of two proposed subregions of the MCC: the anterior
and posterior midcingulate cortices (aMCC and pMCC) to behavioral and
cardiovascular correlates of threat processing relevant to anxiety disorders.
Transient inactivation of the aMCC decreased anxiety-like responses to a
postencounter distal threat, namely an unfamiliar human intruder, while
inactivation of the pMCC showed a mild but opposing effect. Furthermore, although
inactivation of neither MCC subregions had any effect on basal cardiovascular
activity, aMCC inactivation blunted the expression of both cardiovascular and
behavioral conditioned responses to a predictable proximal threat (a rubber
snake) during the extinction in a Pavlovian conditioning task, with pMCC
inactivation having again an opposing effect, but primarily on the behavioral
response. These findings suggest that the MCC is indeed functionally
heterogeneous with regards to its role in threat processing, with aMCC providing 
a marked facilitative contribution to the expression of the emotional response to
both proximal and distal threat.

© The Author(s) 2021. Published by Oxford University Press.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhab121 
PMCID: PMC8408452
PMID: 34076234  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

