

1284. Am J Primatol. 2015 Apr;77(4):401-417. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22356. Epub 2015 Feb 12.

Development of a novel postnatal neurobehavioral scale for evaluation of common
marmoset monkeys.

Braun K(#)(1), Schultz-Darken N(#)(1), Schneider M(2)(3), Moore CF(2)(4), Emborg 
ME(1)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, University of
Wisconsin, Madison.
(2)Department of Harlow Center for Biological Psychology, University of
Wisconsin, Madison.
(3)Department of Kinesiology, University of Wisconsin, Madison.
(4)Department of Psychology, University of Wisconsin, Madison.
(5)Department of Medical Physics, University of Wisconsin, Madison.
(#)Contributed equally

Common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) monkeys when compared to rhesus macaques
(Macaca mullatta) present several advantages for disease modeling, especially
transgenic initiatives, as they commonly give birth to twins, which increases
sample size, have accelerated development and a shorter life span that
facilitates the analysis of the onset of age-related diseases. Yet, no tools are 
currently available to assess marmoset neurodevelopment during the initial first 
month of life. Here we report the creation of a novel Primate Postnatal
Neurobehavioral Assessment Scale for marmoset monkeys (PPNAS-M) that was based on
currently available scales for human and rhesus monkeys. Twenty-four healthy
marmoset infants (12 females, 12 males) from 12 families were evaluated. The
infant assessments involved 10-minute testing administered at 15 and 30 days
after birth. The PPNAS-M consists of 41 noninvasive tests grouped into 5 testing 
categories: visual orienting, auditory and spatial orienting, motor responses,
righting and body strength, and temperament tests. Testing at these two ages did 
not affect the overall health of the infants, suggesting that the PPNAS-M is a
non-invasive testing tool. Significant maturation was demonstrated by increased
scores in each of the five testing categories from postnatal day 15 to 30, with
developmental patterns unique to marmosets. Principal component analysis defined 
4 item groups (Orientation, State Control, Motor Maturity and Sensory
Sensitivity) with 5 variables each. Orientation and State Control factors were
highly similar to each other at both ages and correlated highly with previous
item groupings used with rhesus macaques. Our results indicate that the PPNAS-M
is a useful assessment tool for detecting neuromotor, attention, and temperament 
status of infant marmosets and that it is sensitive to developmental effects.
Further studies to validate the PPNAS-M for the assessment of normal development 
versus early effects of developmental perturbations associated to prenatal
exposures and transgenesis are warranted.

© 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22356 
PMCID: PMC4374045
PMID: 25676438  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1285. PLoS One. 2015 Feb 6;10(2):e0114025. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0114025.
eCollection 2015.

Patch size, functional isolation, visibility and matrix permeability influences
neotropical primate occurrence within highly fragmented landscapes.

da Silva LG(1), Ribeiro MC(2), Hasui É(1), da Costa CA(1), da Cunha RG(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Natural Sciences, Federal University of Alfenas (UNIFAL-MG),
Alfenas, Brazil.
(2)Spatial Ecology and Conservation lab (LEEC), Department of Ecology, São Paulo 
State University (UNESP), Rio Claro, Brazil.

Forest fragmentation and habitat loss are among the major current extinction
causes. Remaining fragments are mostly small, isolated and showing poor quality. 
Being primarily arboreal, Neotropical primates are generally sensitive to
fragmentation effects. Furthermore, primates are involved in complex ecological
process. Thus, landscape changes that negatively interfere with primate
population dynamic affect the structure, composition, and ultimately the
viability of the whole community. We evaluated if fragment size, isolation and
visibility and matrix permeability are important for explaining the occurrence of
three Neotropical primate species. Employing playback, we verified the presence
of Callicebus nigrifrons, Callithrix aurita and Sapajus nigritus at 45 forest
fragments around the municipality of Alfenas, Brazil. We classified the landscape
and evaluated the metrics through predictive models of occurrence. We selected
the best models through Akaike Selection Criterion. Aiming at validating our
results, we applied the plausible models to another region (20 fragments at the
neighboring municipality of Poço Fundo, Brazil). Twelve models were plausible,
and three were validated, two for Sapajus nigritus (Area and Area+Visibility) and
one for Callicebus nigrifrons (Area+Matrix). Our results reinforce the
contribution of fragment size to maintain biodiversity within highly degraded
habitats. At the same time, they stress the importance of including novel,
biologically relevant metrics in landscape studies, such as visibility and matrix
permeability, which can provide invaluable help for similar studies in the future
and on conservation practices in the long run.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0114025 
PMCID: PMC4319959
PMID: 25658108  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

