

1291. J Neurosci. 2015 Jan 21;35(3):1160-72. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.2659-14.2015.

Functional mapping of face-selective regions in the extrastriate visual cortex of
the marmoset.

Hung CC(1), Yen CC(2), Ciuchta JL(2), Papoti D(2), Bock NA(3), Leopold DA(4),
Silva AC(5).

Author information: 
(1)Cerebral Microcirculation Section, Laboratory of Functional and Molecular
Imaging, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, Section on Cognitive
Neurophysiology and Imaging, Laboratory of Neuropsychology, National Institute of
Mental Health, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892.
(2)Cerebral Microcirculation Section, Laboratory of Functional and Molecular
Imaging, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892.
(3)Medical Physics and Applied Radiation Sciences, McMaster University, Hamilton,
Ontario L8S 4K1, Canada, and.
(4)Section on Cognitive Neurophysiology and Imaging, Laboratory of
Neuropsychology, National Institute of Mental Health, National Institutes of
Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, Neurophysiology Imaging Facility, National
Institute of Mental Health, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and
Stroke, National Eye Institute, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland
20182.
(5)Cerebral Microcirculation Section, Laboratory of Functional and Molecular
Imaging, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, SilvaA@ninds.nih.gov.

Comment in
    Trends Cogn Sci. 2015 May;19(5):240-1.

The cerebral cortex of humans and macaques has specialized regions for processing
faces and other visual stimulus categories. It is unknown whether a similar
functional organization exists in New World monkeys, such as the common marmoset 
(Callithrix jacchus), a species of growing interest as a primate model in
neuroscience. To address this question, we measured selective neural responses in
the brain of four awake marmosets trained to fix their gaze upon images of faces,
bodies, objects, and control patterns. In two of the subjects, we measured high
gamma-range field potentials from electrocorticography arrays implanted over a
large portion of the occipital and inferotemporal cortex. In the other two
subjects, we measured BOLD fMRI responses across the entire brain. Both
techniques revealed robust, regionally specific patterns of category-selective
neural responses. We report that at least six face-selective patches mark the
occipitotemporal pathway of the marmoset, with the most anterior patches showing 
the strongest preference for faces over other stimuli. The similar appearance of 
these patches to previous findings in macaques and humans, including their
apparent arrangement in two parallel pathways, suggests that core elements of the
face processing network were present in the common anthropoid primate ancestor
living ∼35 million years ago. The findings also identify the marmoset as a viable
animal model system for studying specialized neural mechanisms related to
high-level social visual perception in humans.

Copyright © 2015 the authors 0270-6474/15/351160-13$15.00/0.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.2659-14.2015 
PMCID: PMC4300322
PMID: 25609630  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1292. Int J Neuropsychopharmacol. 2014 Oct 31;18(2). pii: pyu030. doi:
10.1093/ijnp/pyu030.

Quantification of central substance P receptor occupancy by aprepitant using
small animal positron emission tomography.

Endo T(1), Saijo T(1), Haneda E(1), Maeda J(1), Tokunaga M(1), Zhang MR(1),
Kannami A(1), Asai H(1), Suzuki M(1), Suhara T(1), Higuchi M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Imaging Center, National Institute of Radiological Sciences, Chiba, 
Japan (Drs Endo, Saijo, Haneda, Maeda, Tokunaga, Zhang, Suhara, Higuchi);
Department of Molecular Neuroimaging, Tohoku University Graduate School of
Medicine, Sendai, Japan (Drs Endo, Saijo, Suhara, and Higuchi); DMPK Research
Laboratory, Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation, Kisarazu, Japan (Drs Endo,
Saijo, and Kannami); Clinical & Research Quality Assurance Department, Mitsubishi
Tanabe Pharma Corporation, Tokyo, Japan (Dr Asai); Clinical Pharmacology
Department, Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation, Tokyo, Japan (Dr Suzuki).
(2)Molecular Imaging Center, National Institute of Radiological Sciences, Chiba, 
Japan (Drs Endo, Saijo, Haneda, Maeda, Tokunaga, Zhang, Suhara, Higuchi);
Department of Molecular Neuroimaging, Tohoku University Graduate School of
Medicine, Sendai, Japan (Drs Endo, Saijo, Suhara, and Higuchi); DMPK Research
Laboratory, Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation, Kisarazu, Japan (Drs Endo,
Saijo, and Kannami); Clinical & Research Quality Assurance Department, Mitsubishi
Tanabe Pharma Corporation, Tokyo, Japan (Dr Asai); Clinical Pharmacology
Department, Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation, Tokyo, Japan (Dr Suzuki).
mhiguchi@nirs.go.jp.

BACKGROUND: Central substance P receptors, termed NK-1 receptors, have been
considered as therapeutic targets in the development of drugs against diverse
conditions, including emesis, overactive bladder, and depression.
METHODS: Here, we applied small animal positron emission tomography (PET) and a
radioligand for NK-1 receptors ([(18)F]FE-SPA-RQ) for measuring occupancies of
these receptors by a selective antagonist (aprepitant) in order to examine the
validity of this in vivo imaging system for preclinical characterization of
candidate agents acting on NK-1 receptors, and as a tool for predicting optimal
doses in humans.
RESULTS: PET in gerbils depicted high uptake in the striatum and dose-dependent
displacement with increasing doses of aprepitant. Occupancies increased as a
function of aprepitant plasma concentrations according to a one-site competition 
model, which agrees with reported occupancy-concentration relationships in
clinical studies after correction for species differences in plasma
protein-unbound aprepitant fractions. These occupancy data were further supported
by ex vivo autoradiography of brain samples from aprepitant-treated gerbils. In a
pilot study of a marmoset, we obtained more accurate determinations of NK-1
receptor occupancy, less affected by spillover of signals from extracranial
tissues than in gerbil experiments.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings support the utility of small animals and quantitative
PET in the development of drugs targeting NK-1 receptors.

© The Author 2015. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of CINP.

DOI: 10.1093/ijnp/pyu030 
PMCID: PMC4368889
PMID: 25609595  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

