

1292. Int J Neuropsychopharmacol. 2014 Oct 31;18(2). pii: pyu030. doi:
10.1093/ijnp/pyu030.

Quantification of central substance P receptor occupancy by aprepitant using
small animal positron emission tomography.

Endo T(1), Saijo T(1), Haneda E(1), Maeda J(1), Tokunaga M(1), Zhang MR(1),
Kannami A(1), Asai H(1), Suzuki M(1), Suhara T(1), Higuchi M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Imaging Center, National Institute of Radiological Sciences, Chiba, 
Japan (Drs Endo, Saijo, Haneda, Maeda, Tokunaga, Zhang, Suhara, Higuchi);
Department of Molecular Neuroimaging, Tohoku University Graduate School of
Medicine, Sendai, Japan (Drs Endo, Saijo, Suhara, and Higuchi); DMPK Research
Laboratory, Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation, Kisarazu, Japan (Drs Endo,
Saijo, and Kannami); Clinical & Research Quality Assurance Department, Mitsubishi
Tanabe Pharma Corporation, Tokyo, Japan (Dr Asai); Clinical Pharmacology
Department, Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation, Tokyo, Japan (Dr Suzuki).
(2)Molecular Imaging Center, National Institute of Radiological Sciences, Chiba, 
Japan (Drs Endo, Saijo, Haneda, Maeda, Tokunaga, Zhang, Suhara, Higuchi);
Department of Molecular Neuroimaging, Tohoku University Graduate School of
Medicine, Sendai, Japan (Drs Endo, Saijo, Suhara, and Higuchi); DMPK Research
Laboratory, Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation, Kisarazu, Japan (Drs Endo,
Saijo, and Kannami); Clinical & Research Quality Assurance Department, Mitsubishi
Tanabe Pharma Corporation, Tokyo, Japan (Dr Asai); Clinical Pharmacology
Department, Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation, Tokyo, Japan (Dr Suzuki).
mhiguchi@nirs.go.jp.

BACKGROUND: Central substance P receptors, termed NK-1 receptors, have been
considered as therapeutic targets in the development of drugs against diverse
conditions, including emesis, overactive bladder, and depression.
METHODS: Here, we applied small animal positron emission tomography (PET) and a
radioligand for NK-1 receptors ([(18)F]FE-SPA-RQ) for measuring occupancies of
these receptors by a selective antagonist (aprepitant) in order to examine the
validity of this in vivo imaging system for preclinical characterization of
candidate agents acting on NK-1 receptors, and as a tool for predicting optimal
doses in humans.
RESULTS: PET in gerbils depicted high uptake in the striatum and dose-dependent
displacement with increasing doses of aprepitant. Occupancies increased as a
function of aprepitant plasma concentrations according to a one-site competition 
model, which agrees with reported occupancy-concentration relationships in
clinical studies after correction for species differences in plasma
protein-unbound aprepitant fractions. These occupancy data were further supported
by ex vivo autoradiography of brain samples from aprepitant-treated gerbils. In a
pilot study of a marmoset, we obtained more accurate determinations of NK-1
receptor occupancy, less affected by spillover of signals from extracranial
tissues than in gerbil experiments.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings support the utility of small animals and quantitative
PET in the development of drugs targeting NK-1 receptors.

© The Author 2015. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of CINP.

DOI: 10.1093/ijnp/pyu030 
PMCID: PMC4368889
PMID: 25609595  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1293. Radiology. 2015 May;275(2):430-7. doi: 10.1148/radiol.14140601. Epub 2015 Jan 15.

Parkinson Disease: Diffusion MR Imaging to Detect Nigrostriatal Pathway Loss in a
Marmoset Model Treated with 1-Methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine.

Hikishima K(1), Ando K, Yano R, Kawai K, Komaki Y, Inoue T, Itoh T, Yamada M,
Momoshima S, Okano HJ, Okano H.

Author information: 
(1)From the Departments of Physiology (K.H., R.Y., Y.K., H.O.) and Diagnostic
Radiology (S.M.), Keio University School of Medicine, 35 Shinanomachi,
Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo 160-8582, Japan; Central Institute for Experimental Animals,
Kawasaki, Japan (K.H., K.A., R.Y., K.K., Y.K., T. Inoue, T. Itoh); Faculty of
Radiological Technology, Fujita Health University School of Health Sciences,
Toyoake, Japan (M.Y.); Division of Regenerative Medicine, Jikei University School
of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan (H.J.O.); and Laboratory for Marmoset Neural
Architecture, RIKEN Brain Science Institute, Wako, Japan (H.O.).

PURPOSE: To investigate the use of diffusion-tensor imaging (DTI) to detect
denervation of the nigrostriatal pathway in a nonhuman primate model of Parkinson
disease (PD) after treatment with 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine
(MPTP).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This study was approved by the institutional committee for
animal experiments. DTI was performed in marmosets (n = 6) by using a 7-T
magnetic resonance (MR) imager before and 10 weeks after administration of MPTP. 
Fixed brains of a normal marmoset and a marmoset model of PD (n = 1) were
analyzed by using microscopic tractography. Tyrosine-hydroxylase staining of
dopaminergic neurons and three-dimensional histologic analysis also were
performed in normal marmosets (n = 2) and a PD marmoset model (n = 2) to validate
the course of the nigrostriatal pathway revealed at tractography. Statistical
analysis of voxel-based and post hoc region-of-interest analyses of DTI maps was 
performed by using a paired t test.
RESULTS: At voxel-based analysis of DTI before and after treatment, MPTP-treated 
marmoset brains showed significantly increased axial and radial diffusivity in
the bilateral nigrostriatal pathway (P < .05, false discovery rate corrected).
The largest area of significantly increased diffusivity was an area of axial
diffusivity in the right hemispere (177 mm(3)) that corresponded to the location 
of dopaminergic neurodegeneration at histologic evaluation. Region-of-interest
analysis revealed a 27% increase in axial diffusivity in the right hemisphere
(1.198 mm(2)/sec ± 0.111 to 1.522 mm(2)/sec ± 0.118; P = .002). Three-dimensional
histologic analysis with tyrosine-hydroxylase staining showed the course of the
nigrostriatal pathway and degeneration in the PD marmoset model as the absence of
a tyrosine-hydroxylase stained region. Microscopic tractography showed that the
connection of the substantia nigra to the striatum followed the same course as
the nigrostriatal pathway and fewer fiber tracts in the PD marmoset model.
CONCLUSION: DTI and microscopic tractography showed the loss of fiber structures 
of the nigrostriatal pathway in the marmoset model of PD. The results of this
study provide a potential basis for the use of DTI in the clinical diagnosis of
PD.

(©) RSNA, 2015

DOI: 10.1148/radiol.14140601 
PMID: 25602507  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

