

13. Neuroimage. 2022 Apr 15;250:118965. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2022.118965. Epub
2022 Feb 2.

Anatomical variability, multi-modal coordinate systems, and precision targeting
in the marmoset brain.

Ose T(1), Autio JA(2), Ohno M(3), Frey S(4), Uematsu A(5), Kawasaki A(6), Takeda 
C(7), Hori Y(8), Nishigori K(9), Nakako T(10), Yokoyama C(11), Nagata H(12),
Yamamori T(13), Van Essen DC(14), Glasser MF(15), Watabe H(16), Hayashi T(17).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Brain Connectomics Imaging, RIKEN Center for Biosystems
Dynamics Research, Kobe, Japan; Graduate School of Biomedical Engineering, Tohoku
University, Sendai, Japan. Electronic address: ose@riken.jp.
(2)Laboratory for Brain Connectomics Imaging, RIKEN Center for Biosystems
Dynamics Research, Kobe, Japan. Electronic address: joonas.autio@riken.jp.
(3)Laboratory for Brain Connectomics Imaging, RIKEN Center for Biosystems
Dynamics Research, Kobe, Japan. Electronic address: m-ohno@riken.jp.
(4)Rogue Research Inc, Montreal, Canada. Electronic address:
steve@rogue-research.com.
(5)Laboratory for Brain Connectomics Imaging, RIKEN Center for Biosystems
Dynamics Research, Kobe, Japan. Electronic address: akiko.uematsu@riken.jp.
(6)Laboratory for Brain Connectomics Imaging, RIKEN Center for Biosystems
Dynamics Research, Kobe, Japan. Electronic address: aki_kawasaki@riken.jp.
(7)Laboratory for Brain Connectomics Imaging, RIKEN Center for Biosystems
Dynamics Research, Kobe, Japan. Electronic address: ctakeda@riken.jp.
(8)Laboratory for Brain Connectomics Imaging, RIKEN Center for Biosystems
Dynamics Research, Kobe, Japan; Department of Functional Brain Imaging, National 
Institutes for Quantum and Radiological Science and Technology, Chiba, Japan.
(9)Laboratory for Brain Connectomics Imaging, RIKEN Center for Biosystems
Dynamics Research, Kobe, Japan; Sumitomo Dainippon Pharma Co. Ltd., Osaka, Japan.
Electronic address: kantaro-nishigori@ds-pharma.co.jp.
(10)Laboratory for Brain Connectomics Imaging, RIKEN Center for Biosystems
Dynamics Research, Kobe, Japan; Sumitomo Dainippon Pharma Co. Ltd., Osaka, Japan.
Electronic address: tomokazu-nakako@ds-pharma.co.jp.
(11)Laboratory for Brain Connectomics Imaging, RIKEN Center for Biosystems
Dynamics Research, Kobe, Japan; Faculty of Human life and Environmental Science, 
Nara women's University, Nara, Japan. Electronic address: chihiro@nara-wu.ac.jp.
(12)Sumitomo Dainippon Pharma Co. Ltd., Osaka, Japan. Electronic address:
hidetaka-nagata@ds-pharma.co.jp.
(13)Laboratory for Molecular Analysis of Higher Brain Function, RIKEN Center for 
Brain Science, Wako, Japan. Electronic address: tetsuo.yamamori@riken.jp.
(14)Department of Neuroscience, Washington University Medical School, St Louis,
MO United States. Electronic address: vanessen@wustl.edu.
(15)Department of Neuroscience, Washington University Medical School, St Louis,
MO United States; Department of Radiology, Washington University Medical School, 
St Louis, MO United States. Electronic address: glasserm@wustl.edu.
(16)Graduate School of Biomedical Engineering, Tohoku University, Sendai, Japan. 
Electronic address: watabe@cyric.tohoku.ac.jp.
(17)Laboratory for Brain Connectomics Imaging, RIKEN Center for Biosystems
Dynamics Research, Kobe, Japan; Department of Brain Connectomics, Kyoto
University Graduate School of Medicine, Kyoto, Japan. Electronic address:
takuya.hayashi@riken.jp.

Localising accurate brain regions needs careful evaluation in each experimental
species due to their individual variability. However, the function and
connectivity of brain areas is commonly studied using a single-subject cranial
landmark-based stereotactic atlas in animal neuroscience. Here, we address this
issue in a small primate, the common marmoset, which is increasingly widely used 
in systems neuroscience. We developed a non-invasive multi-modal
neuroimaging-based targeting pipeline, which accounts for intersubject anatomical
variability in cranial and cortical landmarks in marmosets. This methodology
allowed creation of multi-modal templates (MarmosetRIKEN20) including head CT and
brain MR images, embedded in coordinate systems of anterior and posterior
commissures (AC-PC) and CIFTI grayordinates. We found that the horizontal plane
of the stereotactic coordinate was significantly rotated in pitch relative to the
AC-PC coordinate system (10 degrees, frontal downwards), and had a significant
bias and uncertainty due to positioning procedures. We also found that many
common cranial and brain landmarks (e.g., bregma, intraparietal sulcus) vary in
location across subjects and are substantial relative to average marmoset
cortical area dimensions. Combining the neuroimaging-based targeting pipeline
with robot-guided surgery enabled proof-of-concept targeting of deep brain
structures with an accuracy of 0.2 mm. Altogether, our findings demonstrate
substantial intersubject variability in marmoset brain and cranial landmarks,
implying that subject-specific neuroimaging-based localization is needed for
precision targeting in marmosets. The population-based templates and atlases in
grayordinates, created for the first time in marmoset monkeys, should help
bridging between macroscale and microscale analyses.

Copyright © 2022. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2022.118965 
PMCID: PMC8948178 [Available on 2022-04-15]
PMID: 35122965  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest Stephen Frey is
employed by Rogue Research Inc. All the other authors declare no competing
financial interests.


14. Commun Biol. 2022 Feb 3;5(1):108. doi: 10.1038/s42003-022-03052-1.

Cortical neural dynamics unveil the rhythm of natural visual behavior in
marmosets.

Kaneko T(#)(1)(2), Komatsu M(#)(3), Yamamori T(3), Ichinohe N(4), Okano H(5)(6).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Marmoset Neural Architecture, RIKEN Center for Brain Science,
Saitama, Japan. kaneko.takaaki.6w@kyoto-u.ac.jp.
(2)Systems Neuroscience Section, Primate Research Institute, Kyoto University,
Aichi, Japan. kaneko.takaaki.6w@kyoto-u.ac.jp.
(3)Laboratory for Molecular Analysis of Higher Brain Function, Center for Brain
Science, RIKEN, Saitama, Japan.
(4)Department of Ultrastructural Research, National Institute of Neuroscience,
National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, Tokyo, Japan.
(5)Laboratory for Marmoset Neural Architecture, RIKEN Center for Brain Science,
Saitama, Japan. hidokano@a2.keio.jp.
(6)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.
hidokano@a2.keio.jp.
(#)Contributed equally

Numerous studies have shown that the visual system consists of functionally
distinct ventral and dorsal streams; however, its exact spatial-temporal dynamics
during natural visual behavior remain to be investigated. Here, we report
cerebral neural dynamics during active visual exploration recorded by an
electrocorticographic array covering the entire lateral surface of the marmoset
cortex. We found that the dorsal stream was activated before the primary visual
cortex with saccades and followed by the alteration of suppression and activation
signals along the ventral stream. Similarly, the signal that propagated from the 
dorsal to ventral visual areas was accompanied by a travelling wave of low
frequency oscillations. Such signal dynamics occurred at an average of 220 ms
after saccades, which corresponded to the timing when whole-brain activation
returned to background levels. We also demonstrated that saccades could occur at 
any point of signal flow, indicating the parallel computation of motor commands. 
Overall, this study reveals the neural dynamics of active vision, which are
efficiently linked to the natural rhythms of visual exploration.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s42003-022-03052-1 
PMCID: PMC8814246
PMID: 35115680  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

