

1304. Am J Trop Med Hyg. 2015 Feb;92(2):370-6. doi: 10.4269/ajtmh.14-0455. Epub 2014
Dec 29.

Formation of infectious dengue virus-antibody immune complex in vivo in marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus) after passive transfer of anti-dengue virus monoclonal
antibodies and infection with dengue virus.

Moi ML(1), Ami Y(1), Shirai K(1), Lim CK(1), Suzaki Y(1), Saito Y(1), Kitaura
K(1), Saijo M(1), Suzuki R(1), Kurane I(2), Takasaki T(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Virology 1, National Institute of Infectious Diseases, Tokyo,
Japan; Division of Experimental Animal Research, National Institute of Infectious
Diseases, Musashimurayama, Tokyo, Japan; Department of Rheumatology and Clinical 
Immunology, Clinical Research Center for Allergy and Rheumatology, Sagamihara
National Hospital, National Hospital Organization, Kanagawa, Japan; College of
Bioresource Sciences, Nihon University, Fujisawa, Kanagawa, Japan; National
Institute of Infectious Diseases, Tokyo, Japan.
(2)Department of Virology 1, National Institute of Infectious Diseases, Tokyo,
Japan; Division of Experimental Animal Research, National Institute of Infectious
Diseases, Musashimurayama, Tokyo, Japan; Department of Rheumatology and Clinical 
Immunology, Clinical Research Center for Allergy and Rheumatology, Sagamihara
National Hospital, National Hospital Organization, Kanagawa, Japan; College of
Bioresource Sciences, Nihon University, Fujisawa, Kanagawa, Japan; National
Institute of Infectious Diseases, Tokyo, Japan kurane@nih.go.jp
takasaki@nih.go.jp.

Infection with a dengue virus (DENV) serotype induces cross-reactive, weakly
neutralizing antibodies to different dengue serotypes. It has been postulated
that cross-reactive antibodies form a virus-antibody immune complex and enhance
DENV infection of Fc gamma receptor (FcγR)-bearing cells. We determined whether
infectious DENV-antibody immune complex is formed in vivo in marmosets after
passive transfer of DENV-specific monoclonal antibody (mAb) and DENV inoculation 
and whether infectious DENV-antibody immune complex is detectable using
FcγR-expressing cells. Marmosets showed that DENV-antibody immune complex was
exclusively infectious to FcγR-expressing cells on days 2, 4, and 7 after passive
transfer of each of the mAbs (mAb 4G2 and mAb 6B6C) and DENV inoculation.
Although DENV-antibody immune complex was detected, contribution of the passively
transferred antibody to overall viremia levels was limited in this study. The
results indicate that DENV cross-reactive antibodies form DENV-antibody immune
complex in vivo, which is infectious to FcγR-bearing cells but not FcγR-negative 
cells.

© The American Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene.

DOI: 10.4269/ajtmh.14-0455 
PMCID: PMC4347344
PMID: 25548383  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1305. Toxicol Rep. 2014 Dec 31;2:165-174. doi: 10.1016/j.toxrep.2014.11.016.
eCollection 2015.

Non-human primate and rodent embryonic stem cells are differentially sensitive to
embryotoxic compounds.

Walker L(1)(2), Baumgartner L(3), Keller KC(1), Ast J(3), Trettner S(3), Zur
Nieden NI(1)(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology & Neuroscience and Stem Cell Center, College of
Natural and Agricultural Sciences, University of California Riverside, Riverside,
CA 92521, USA.
(2)Environmental Toxicology Graduate Program, College of Natural and Agricultural
Sciences, University of California Riverside, Riverside, CA 92521, USA.
(3)Fraunhofer Institute for Cell Therapy & Immunology, Perlickstrasse 1, 04103
Leipzig, Germany.

Many industrial chemicals and their respective by-products need to be
comprehensively evaluated for toxicity using reliable and efficient assays. In
terms of teratogenicity evaluations, the murine-based embryonic stem cell test
(EST) offers a promising solution to screen for multiple tissue endpoints.
However, use of a mouse model in the EST can yield only a limited understanding
of human development, anatomy, and physiology. Non-human primate or human in
vitro models have been suggested to be a pharmacologically and
pathophysiologically desirable alternative to murine in vitro models. Here, we
comparatively evaluated the sensitivity of embryonic stem cells (ESCs) of a
non-human primate to skeletal teratogens with mouse ESCs hypothesizing that
inclusion of non-human primate cells in in vitro tests would increase the
reliability of safety predictions for humans. First, osteogenic capacity was
compared between ESCs from the mouse and a New World monkey, the common marmoset.
Then, cells were treated with compounds that have been previously reported to
induce bone teratogenicity. Calcification and MTT assays evaluated effects on
osteogenesis and cell viability, respectively. Our data indicated that marmoset
ESCs responded differently than mouse ESCs in such embryotoxicity screens with no
obvious dependency on chemical or compound classes and thus suggest that
embryotoxicity screening results could be affected by species-driven response
variation. In addition, ESCs derived from rhesus monkey, an Old World monkey, and
phylogenetically closer to humans than the marmoset, were observed to respond
differently to test compounds than marmoset ESCs. Together these results indicate
that there are significant differences in the responses of non-human primate and 
mouse ESC to embryotoxic agents.

DOI: 10.1016/j.toxrep.2014.11.016 
PMCID: PMC5598278
PMID: 28962348 

