

1305. Toxicol Rep. 2014 Dec 31;2:165-174. doi: 10.1016/j.toxrep.2014.11.016.
eCollection 2015.

Non-human primate and rodent embryonic stem cells are differentially sensitive to
embryotoxic compounds.

Walker L(1)(2), Baumgartner L(3), Keller KC(1), Ast J(3), Trettner S(3), Zur
Nieden NI(1)(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology & Neuroscience and Stem Cell Center, College of
Natural and Agricultural Sciences, University of California Riverside, Riverside,
CA 92521, USA.
(2)Environmental Toxicology Graduate Program, College of Natural and Agricultural
Sciences, University of California Riverside, Riverside, CA 92521, USA.
(3)Fraunhofer Institute for Cell Therapy & Immunology, Perlickstrasse 1, 04103
Leipzig, Germany.

Many industrial chemicals and their respective by-products need to be
comprehensively evaluated for toxicity using reliable and efficient assays. In
terms of teratogenicity evaluations, the murine-based embryonic stem cell test
(EST) offers a promising solution to screen for multiple tissue endpoints.
However, use of a mouse model in the EST can yield only a limited understanding
of human development, anatomy, and physiology. Non-human primate or human in
vitro models have been suggested to be a pharmacologically and
pathophysiologically desirable alternative to murine in vitro models. Here, we
comparatively evaluated the sensitivity of embryonic stem cells (ESCs) of a
non-human primate to skeletal teratogens with mouse ESCs hypothesizing that
inclusion of non-human primate cells in in vitro tests would increase the
reliability of safety predictions for humans. First, osteogenic capacity was
compared between ESCs from the mouse and a New World monkey, the common marmoset.
Then, cells were treated with compounds that have been previously reported to
induce bone teratogenicity. Calcification and MTT assays evaluated effects on
osteogenesis and cell viability, respectively. Our data indicated that marmoset
ESCs responded differently than mouse ESCs in such embryotoxicity screens with no
obvious dependency on chemical or compound classes and thus suggest that
embryotoxicity screening results could be affected by species-driven response
variation. In addition, ESCs derived from rhesus monkey, an Old World monkey, and
phylogenetically closer to humans than the marmoset, were observed to respond
differently to test compounds than marmoset ESCs. Together these results indicate
that there are significant differences in the responses of non-human primate and 
mouse ESC to embryotoxic agents.

DOI: 10.1016/j.toxrep.2014.11.016 
PMCID: PMC5598278
PMID: 28962348 


1306. J Exp Psychol Anim Learn Cogn. 2014 Jul;40(3):317-26. doi: 10.1037/xan0000027.
Epub 2014 May 5.

Transposition and its generalization in common marmosets.

Yamazaki Y(1), Saiki M(2), Inada M(2), Iriki A(2), Watanabe S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Graduate School of Human Relations, Keio University.
(2)Laboratory for Symbolic Cognitive Development, RIKEN Brain Science Institute.

Whether animals use relational cues in transposition tests has long been
considered a controversial issue. In the present study, we examined whether
common marmosets could generalize relational responses to untrained stimulus
pairs and further apply these generalizations to unknown shapes. The subjects
were trained to perform simple discrimination tasks using a pair of stimuli. The 
stimuli differed in size, and the subjects were required to select the larger or 
smaller of the 2 sizes, depending on the given contingencies. After experiencing 
several reversals, the subjects were examined using 2 different tests:
transposition and shape generalization. In the transposition test trials, in
which squares of different sizes than those used in the training trials were
presented, the subjects selected the stimulus based on the relative size of the
stimulus. In the shape generalization tests, sets of 5 novel shapes with the same
relative sizes were presented with the training stimuli. The subjects'
performance indicated successful transposition to the novel stimulus pairs, and
further analysis showed that transposition was more likely to occur when the test
stimuli shared physical features, such as the outer length and the number of line
segments, with the trained stimuli. Thus, the present study demonstrated the
robust ability of transposition in common marmosets based on relative size, both 
with and without common shape features, and offered a possible method for
specifying the critical stimulus features through which transposition can be more
readily observed.

DOI: 10.1037/xan0000027 
PMID: 25545979  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

