

1312. Am J Phys Anthropol. 2015 Apr;156(4):565-76. doi: 10.1002/ajpa.22683. Epub 2014
Dec 19.

Angular momentum and arboreal stability in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Chadwell BA(1), Young JW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy and Neurobiology, Northeast Ohio Medical University
(NEOMED), Rootstown, OH, 44272; Skeletal Biology Research Focus Area, NEOMED,
Rootstown, OH, 44272.

Despite the importance that concepts of arboreal stability have in theories of
primate locomotor evolution, we currently lack measures of balance performance
during primate locomotion. We provide the first quantitative data on locomotor
stability in an arboreal primate, the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus),
predicting that primates should maximize arboreal stability by minimizing
side-to-side angular momentum about the support (i.e., Lsup ). If net Lsup
becomes excessive, the animal will be unable to arrest its angular movement and
will fall. Using a novel, highly integrative experimental procedure we directly
measured whole-body Lsup in two adult marmosets moving along narrow (2.5 cm
diameter) and broad (5 cm diameter) poles. Marmosets showed a strong preference
for asymmetrical gaits (e.g., gallops and bounds) over symmetrical gaits (e.g.,
walks and runs), with asymmetrical gaits representing >90% of all strides.
Movement on the narrow support was associated with an increase in more "grounded"
gaits (i.e., lacking an aerial phase) and a more even distribution of torque
production between the fore- and hind limbs. These adjustments in gait dynamics
significantly reduced net Lsup on the narrow support relative to the broad
support. Despite their lack of a well-developed grasping apparatus, marmosets
proved adept at producing muscular "grasping" torques about the support,
particularly with the hind limbs. We contend that asymmetrical gaits permit
small-bodied arboreal mammals, including primates, to expand "effective grasp" by
gripping the substrate between left and right limbs of a girdle. This model of
arboreal stability may hold important implications for understanding primate
locomotor evolution.

© 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.22683 
PMID: 25523444  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1313. J Virol. 2015 Feb;89(4):2253-67. doi: 10.1128/JVI.02716-14. Epub 2014 Dec 10.

Identification and functional comparison of seven-transmembrane G-protein-coupled
BILF1 receptors in recently discovered nonhuman primate lymphocryptoviruses.

Spiess K(1), Fares S(2), Sparre-Ulrich AH(2), Hilgenberg E(3), Jarvis MA(4),
Ehlers B(3), Rosenkilde MM(5).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Molecular Pharmacology, Department of Neuroscience and
Pharmacology, Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences, University of Copenhagen,
Copenhagen, Denmark Division 12, Measles, Mumps, Rubella, and Viruses Affecting
Immunocompromised Patients, Robert Koch Institute, Berlin, Germany.
(2)Laboratory for Molecular Pharmacology, Department of Neuroscience and
Pharmacology, Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences, University of Copenhagen,
Copenhagen, Denmark.
(3)Division 12, Measles, Mumps, Rubella, and Viruses Affecting Immunocompromised 
Patients, Robert Koch Institute, Berlin, Germany.
(4)School of Biomedical and Healthcare Sciences, University of Plymouth,
Plymouth, United Kingdom.
(5)Laboratory for Molecular Pharmacology, Department of Neuroscience and
Pharmacology, Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences, University of Copenhagen,
Copenhagen, Denmark Rosenkilde@sund.ku.dk.

Coevolution of herpesviruses with their respective host has resulted in a
delicate balance between virus-encoded immune evasion mechanisms and host
antiviral immunity. BILF1 encoded by human Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) is a
7-transmembrane (7TM) G-protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) with multiple
immunomodulatory functions, including attenuation of PKR phosphorylation,
activation of G-protein signaling, and downregulation of major histocompatibility
complex (MHC) class I surface expression. In this study, we explored the
evolutionary and functional relationships between BILF1 receptor family members
from EBV and 12 previously uncharacterized nonhuman primate (NHP)
lymphocryptoviruses (LCVs). Phylogenetic analysis defined 3 BILF1 clades,
corresponding to LCVs of New World monkeys (clade A) or Old World monkeys and
great apes (clades B and C). Common functional properties were suggested by a
high degree of sequence conservation in functionally important regions of the
BILF1 molecules. A subset of BILF1 receptors from EBV and LCVs from NHPs
(chimpanzee, orangutan, marmoset, and siamang) were selected for multifunctional 
analysis. All receptors exhibited constitutive signaling activity via G protein
Gαi and induced activation of the NF-κB transcription factor. In contrast, only 3
of 5 were able to activate NFAT (nuclear factor of activated T cells); chimpanzee
and orangutan BILF1 molecules were unable to activate NFAT. Similarly, although
all receptors were internalized, BILF1 from the chimpanzee and orangutan
displayed an altered cellular localization pattern with predominant cell surface 
expression. This study shows how biochemical characterization of functionally
important orthologous viral proteins can be used to complement phylogenetic
analysis to provide further insight into diverse microbial evolutionary
relationships and immune evasion function.IMPORTANCE: Epstein-Barr virus (EBV),
known as an oncovirus, is the only human herpesvirus in the genus
Lymphocryptovirus (LCV). EBV uses multiple strategies to hijack infected host
cells, establish persistent infection in B cells, and evade antiviral immune
responses. As part of EBV's immune evasion strategy, the virus encodes a
multifunctional 7-transmembrane (7TM) G-protein-coupled receptor (GPCR), EBV
BILF1. In addition to multiple immune evasion-associated functions, EBV BILF1 has
transforming properties, which are linked to its high constitutive activity. We
identified BILF1 receptor orthologues in 12 previously uncharacterized LCVs from 
nonhuman primates (NHPs) of Old and New World origin. As 7TM receptors are
excellent drug targets, our unique insight into the molecular mechanism of action
of the BILF1 family and into the evolution of primate LCVs may enable validation 
of EBV BILF1 as a drug target for EBV-mediated diseases, as well as facilitating 
the design of drugs targeting EBV BILF1.

Copyright © 2015, American Society for Microbiology. All Rights Reserved.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.02716-14 
PMCID: PMC4338891
PMID: 25505061  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

