

1332. Am J Primatol. 2015 Apr;77(4):425-33. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22358. Epub 2014 Nov 18.

Dense understory and absence of capuchin monkeys (Sapajus xanthosternos) predict 
higher density of common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) in the Brazilian
Northeast.

Hilário RR(1), Ferrari SF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological and Health Sciences, Federal University of Amapá,
Macapá, Brazil; Department of Systematics and Ecology, Federal University of
Paraíba, João Pessoa, Brazil.

Understanding the effects of habitat structure and other environmental variables 
on the density of a species can help define its habitat preferences and key
ecological determinants of population parameters. The present study evaluated the
effects of fragment size, the presence of a key predator/competitor, the
yellow-breasted capuchin (Sapajus xanthosternos), primary productivity, the
abundance of bromeliads, and habitat structure on the population density of the
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). A total of 21 fragments were surveyed
within a 350-km long zone of coastal Atlantic Forest representing the southern
extreme of the distribution of the species in the Brazilian Northeast. An index
of marmoset density was generated for each site based on playback surveys. The
relationship between the density of marmosets and a set of parameters was
evaluated by multiple regression. A Principal Components Analysis (PCA) condensed
the five variables of habitat structure into two principal components, which
contained 85% of their combined variation. The model that best explained the
density of marmosets (R(2) = 59.1) contained the second PCA component and the
presence/absence of capuchins. The analysis indicated that the marmosets prefer
forests with denser understory, whether or not they are secondary habitats. The
negative effect of the presence of capuchins may be related to predation
pressure. The results of this study indicate that multiple-site studies may
provide important insights into the habitat preferences of primate species and
the factors that affect their population density.

© 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22358 
PMID: 25407393  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1333. Comp Med. 2014 Oct;64(5):394-403.

Micromelic dysplasia-like syndrome in a captive colony of common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus).

Bosseler L(1), Cornillie P(2), Saunders JH(3), Bakker J(4), Langermans JA(4),
Casteleyn C(5), Decostere A(2), Chiers K(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Bacteriology and Poultry Diseases, Faculty of
Veterinary Medicine, Ghent University, Merelbeke, Belgium.
leslie.bosseler@ugent.be.
(2)Department of Morphology, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Ghent University,
Merelbeke, Belgium.
(3)Department of Veterinary Medical Imaging and Small Animal Orthopaedics,
Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Ghent University, Merelbeke, Belgium.
(4)Department of Animal Science Department, Biomedical Primate Research Centre,
Rijswijk, The Netherlands.
(5)Department of Morphology, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Ghent University,
Merelbeke, Belgium; Department of Veterinary Sciences, Faculty of Pharmaceutical,
Bio-chemical and Veterinary Sciences, University of Antwerp, Wilrijk, Belgium.
(6)Department of Pathology, Bacteriology and Poultry Diseases, Faculty of
Veterinary Medicine, Ghent University, Merelbeke, Belgium.

Over several years, 0% to 5% of adolescent animals in a captive colony of common 
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) showed severely bended arms and legs over several 
years. The animals showed no pain, discomfort, or altered behavior but were
unable to stretch their distal limbs to their full extent. To characterize the
lesion morphologically, the bones of 4 affected marmosets were compared
macroscopically and radiographically with those of 6 unaffected animals. The
deformities were characterized by mid- to distal diaphyseal bending and
pronounced shortening of long bones. The morphology and density of other bones
including the skull and vertebrae were unaffected. Although vitamin D values were
low in a fifth affected marmoset during 10 to 16 mo of age, lesions associated
with rickets were not observed. To our knowledge, this report is the first to
describe a micromelic dysplasia-like syndrome comprising severe, idiopathic
bending and shortening of long bones in a colony of marmosets.


PMCID: PMC4236788
PMID: 25402180  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

