

1344. Anat Rec (Hoboken). 2014 Nov;297(11):2093-104. doi: 10.1002/ar.23029.

Nasal morphometry in marmosets: loss and redistribution of olfactory surface
area.

Smith TD(1), Eiting TP, Bonar CJ, Craven BA.

Author information: 
(1)School of Physical Therapy, Slippery Rock University, Slippery Rock,
Pennsylvania; Department of Anthropology, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania.

The two major groups of primates differ in internal nasal anatomy. Strepsirrhines
(e.g., lemurs) have more numerous turbinals and recesses compared with
haplorhines (e.g., monkeys). Since detailed quantitative comparisons of nasal
surface area (SA) have not been made, we measured mucosa in serially sectioned
monkeys (Callithrix jacchus, Cebuella pygmaea). Data were compared with
previously published findings on the mouse lemur, Microcebus murinus. The nasal
airways were digitally reconstructed using computed tomography scanned heads of
Cebuella and Microcebus. In addition, morphometric and functional analyses were
carried out using segmented photographs of the histological sections of Cebuella 
and Microcebus. The SA of the ethmoturbinal complex is about half as large in
marmosets compared with Microcebus, and is covered with less olfactory mucosa
(18%-24% in marmosets, compared with ∼ 50% in Microcebus). Whereas the
ethmoturbinal complex of Microcebus bears half of the total olfactory mucosa in
the nasal airway, most (∼ 80%) olfactory mucosa is distributed on other surfaces 
in the marmosets (e.g., nasal septum). A comparison to previously published data 
suggests all primate species have less olfactory surface area (OSA) compared with
other similar-sized mammals, but this is especially true of marmosets. Taken
together, these findings support the hypothesis that there is a reduced OSA in at
least some haplorhines, and this can be linked to diminished posterosuperior
dimensions of the nasal fossae. However, haplorhines may have minimized their
olfactory loss by redistributing olfactory mucosa on non-turbinal surfaces. Our
findings also imply that airflow patterns in the olfactory region differ among
primates.

© 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ar.23029 
PMID: 25312367  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1345. Neurosci Res. 2015 Apr;93:91-8. doi: 10.1016/j.neures.2014.09.011. Epub 2014 Oct 
8.

Susceptible period of socio-emotional development affected by constant exposure
to daylight.

Koshiba M(1), Senoo A(2), Karino G(3), Ozawa S(2), Tanaka I(4), Honda Y(4), Usui 
S(4), Kodama T(4), Mimura K(5), Nakamura S(5), Kunikata T(6), Yamanouchi H(6),
Tokuno H(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Saitama Medical University, Japan; Department of
Biochemistry, Saitama Medical University, Japan; National Center of Neurology and
Psychiatry, Japan. Electronic address: koshiba@saitama-med.ac.jp.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, Saitama Medical University, Japan; Tokyo University 
of Agriculture and Technology, Japan.
(3)Department of Pediatrics, Saitama Medical University, Japan; Department of
Biochemistry, Saitama Medical University, Japan; Tokyo University of Agriculture 
and Technology, Japan.
(4)Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of Medical Science, Japan.
(5)Tokyo University of Agriculture and Technology, Japan; National Center of
Neurology and Psychiatry, Japan.
(6)Department of Pediatrics, Saitama Medical University, Japan.

As a diurnal experimental primate, the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) has
recently contributed to numerous kinds of studies of neurobiological psychiatry
as an essential pre-clinical model. The marmoset matures sexually within one or
two years after birth. Thus, we can observe how the primate learns and develops
psycho-cognitive functions through experiences in experimental environment for a 
much shorter period compared to that of humans. Longer daylight exposure may
affect psychological development of children. In our research, we focus on
raising marmosets under constant daylight from birth until various ages. In order
to quantitatively evaluate the development of higher-ordered psychological
functions, we designed a system of socio-behavioral tests and multivariate
correlation analysis methods based on principal component analysis. With
reference to the call and typical body movement expressed during a particular
social context, we statistically inferred the emotional features of the subjects.
In the current literature, we review our published results showing increased
alert behaviors by constant light, and then, attempted to extend our additional
analysis to seek age-dependent susceptibility to constant light. We then present 
the neurobiological mechanisms with reference to previous research reports. The
current review suggests possible existence of a susceptible period earlier than
three to five month-old in the environment-induced developmental disorder model, 
supposedly like attention deficit hyperactive disorders (ADHD) or oppositional
defiant disorder (ODD).

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ireland Ltd and the Japan Neuroscience Society. All
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neures.2014.09.011 
PMID: 25305341  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

