

1345. Neurosci Res. 2015 Apr;93:91-8. doi: 10.1016/j.neures.2014.09.011. Epub 2014 Oct 
8.

Susceptible period of socio-emotional development affected by constant exposure
to daylight.

Koshiba M(1), Senoo A(2), Karino G(3), Ozawa S(2), Tanaka I(4), Honda Y(4), Usui 
S(4), Kodama T(4), Mimura K(5), Nakamura S(5), Kunikata T(6), Yamanouchi H(6),
Tokuno H(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Saitama Medical University, Japan; Department of
Biochemistry, Saitama Medical University, Japan; National Center of Neurology and
Psychiatry, Japan. Electronic address: koshiba@saitama-med.ac.jp.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, Saitama Medical University, Japan; Tokyo University 
of Agriculture and Technology, Japan.
(3)Department of Pediatrics, Saitama Medical University, Japan; Department of
Biochemistry, Saitama Medical University, Japan; Tokyo University of Agriculture 
and Technology, Japan.
(4)Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of Medical Science, Japan.
(5)Tokyo University of Agriculture and Technology, Japan; National Center of
Neurology and Psychiatry, Japan.
(6)Department of Pediatrics, Saitama Medical University, Japan.

As a diurnal experimental primate, the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) has
recently contributed to numerous kinds of studies of neurobiological psychiatry
as an essential pre-clinical model. The marmoset matures sexually within one or
two years after birth. Thus, we can observe how the primate learns and develops
psycho-cognitive functions through experiences in experimental environment for a 
much shorter period compared to that of humans. Longer daylight exposure may
affect psychological development of children. In our research, we focus on
raising marmosets under constant daylight from birth until various ages. In order
to quantitatively evaluate the development of higher-ordered psychological
functions, we designed a system of socio-behavioral tests and multivariate
correlation analysis methods based on principal component analysis. With
reference to the call and typical body movement expressed during a particular
social context, we statistically inferred the emotional features of the subjects.
In the current literature, we review our published results showing increased
alert behaviors by constant light, and then, attempted to extend our additional
analysis to seek age-dependent susceptibility to constant light. We then present 
the neurobiological mechanisms with reference to previous research reports. The
current review suggests possible existence of a susceptible period earlier than
three to five month-old in the environment-induced developmental disorder model, 
supposedly like attention deficit hyperactive disorders (ADHD) or oppositional
defiant disorder (ODD).

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ireland Ltd and the Japan Neuroscience Society. All
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neures.2014.09.011 
PMID: 25305341  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1346. Neurosci Res. 2015 Apr;93:62-71. doi: 10.1016/j.neures.2014.09.012. Epub 2014 Oct
7.

Structure and function of the middle temporal visual area (MT) in the marmoset:
Comparisons with the macaque monkey.

Lui LL(1), Rosa MG(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Monash University, VIC 3800, Australia; Monash
Vision Group, Monash University, VIC 3800, Australia; ARC Centre of Excellence
for Integrative Brain Function, Monash University, VIC 3800, Australia.
Electronic address: leo.lui@monash.edu.
(2)Department of Physiology, Monash University, VIC 3800, Australia; Monash
Vision Group, Monash University, VIC 3800, Australia; ARC Centre of Excellence
for Integrative Brain Function, Monash University, VIC 3800, Australia.

Although macaque monkeys have been dominant models in visual neuroscience, recent
scientific advances suggest that marmosets provide a valuable alternative in the 
context of many types of experiments. Here we focus on the middle temporal area
(MT), the most extensively studied extrastriate area in primates, and discuss
similarities and differences between marmosets and macaques. The basic response
properties of MT cells are similar in these species, including direction
selectivity, speed tuning, and receptive field centre-surround organization.
However, there are differences associated with spatial processing: receptive
fields are larger in the marmoset than in the macaque, and MT neurons have
preferences for lower spatial frequencies. Comparative analysis of anatomical
connections show neural projections from several higher-order association areas
to marmoset MT, which seem to be absent or reduced in the macaque. This suggests 
that cognitive processes could influence the activity of marmoset MT cells more
directly. Despite a relative reduction in visual acuity, the present knowledge
about the anatomy and physiology of MT in the marmoset suggests that simple
low-level visual tasks, which are standard in the literature, are well within the
capabilities of marmosets, opening the way for comparative studies of perception 
and cognition in primate brains of different sizes.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ireland Ltd and the Japan Neuroscience Society. All
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neures.2014.09.012 
PMID: 25304293  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

