

1354. Brain Behav Evol. 2014;84(2):93-102. doi: 10.1159/000365346. Epub 2014 Sep 20.

Convergent evolution of vocal cooperation without convergent evolution of brain
size.

Borjon JI(1), Ghazanfar AA.

Author information: 
(1)Princeton Neuroscience Institute, Princeton University, Princeton, N.J., USA.

One pragmatic underlying successful vocal communication is the ability to take
turns. Taking turns - a form of cooperation - facilitates the transmission of
signals by reducing the amount of their overlap. This allows vocalizations to be 
better heard. Until recently, non-human primates were not thought of as
particularly cooperative, especially in the vocal domain. We recently
demonstrated that common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus), a small New World
primate species, take turns when they exchange vocalizations with both related
and unrelated conspecifics. As the common marmoset is distantly related to humans
(and there is no documented evidence that Old World primates exhibit vocal turn
taking), we argue that this ability arose as an instance of convergent evolution,
and is part of a suite of prosocial behavioral tendencies. Such behaviors seem to
be, at least in part, the outcome of the cooperative breeding strategy adopted by
both humans and marmosets. Importantly, this suite of shared behaviors occurs
without correspondence in encephalization. Marmoset vocal turn taking
demonstrates that a large brain size and complex cognitive machinery is not
needed for vocal cooperation to occur. Consistent with this idea, the temporal
structure of marmoset vocal exchanges can be described in terms of coupled
oscillator dynamics, similar to quantitative descriptions of human conversations.
We propose a simple neural circuit mechanism that may account for these dynamics 
and, at its core, involves vocalization-induced reductions of arousal. Such a
mechanism may underlie the evolution of vocal turn taking in both marmoset
monkeys and humans.

© 2014 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000365346 
PMCID: PMC7592170
PMID: 25247613  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1355. Behav Brain Res. 2014 Dec 15;275:259-68. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2014.09.020. Epub
2014 Sep 22.

Three-dimensional motion analysis of arm-reaching movements in healthy and
hemispinalized common marmosets.

Takemi M(1), Kondo T(2), Yoshino-Saito K(2), Sekiguchi T(1), Kosugi A(1), Kasuga 
S(3), Okano HJ(4), Okano H(2), Ushiba J(5).

Author information: 
(1)School of Fundamental Science and Technology, Graduate School of Science and
Technology, Keio University, Kanagawa, Japan.
(2)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.
(3)Department of Biosciences and Informatics, Faculty of Science and Technology, 
Keio University, Kanagawa, Japan.
(4)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan;
Division of Regenerative Medicine, Jikei University School of Medicine, Tokyo,
Japan.
(5)Department of Biosciences and Informatics, Faculty of Science and Technology, 
Keio University, Kanagawa, Japan; Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, Keio
University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan. Electronic address:
ushiba@brain.bio.keio.ac.jp.

Spinal cord injury (SCI) is a devastating neurological injury. At present,
pharmacological, regenerative, and rehabilitative approaches are widely studied
as therapeutic interventions for motor recovery after SCI. Preclinical research
has been performed on model animals with experimental SCI, and those studies
often evaluate hand and arm motor function using various indices, such as the
success rate of the single pellet reaching test and the grip force. However,
compensatory movement strategies, involuntary muscle contraction, and the
subject's motivation could affect the scores, resulting in failure to assess
direct recovery from impairment. Identifying appropriate assessments of motor
impairment is thus important for understanding the mechanisms of motor recovery. 
In this study, we developed a motion capture system capable of reconstructing
three-dimensional hand positions with millimeter and millisecond accuracy and
evaluated hand kinematics during food retrieval movement in both healthy and
hemispinalized common marmosets. As a result, the endpoint jerk, representing the
accuracy of hand motor control, was asserted to be an appropriate index of upper 
limb motor impairment by eliminating the influence of the subject's motivation,
involuntary muscle contraction, and compensatory strategies. The result also
suggested that the kinematics of the limb more consistently reflects motor
restoration from deficit due to spinal cord injury than the performance in the
single pellet reaching test. Because of recent attention devoted to the common
marmoset as a nonhuman primate model for human diseases, the present study, which
clarified arm-reaching movements in spinalized marmosets, provides fundamental
knowledge for future therapeutic studies.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2014.09.020 
PMID: 25245335  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

