

1373. Front Neural Circuits. 2014 Aug 8;8:96. doi: 10.3389/fncir.2014.00096.
eCollection 2014.

A simpler primate brain: the visual system of the marmoset monkey.

Solomon SG(1), Rosa MG(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, University College London London, UK.
(2)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Clayton, VIC Australia ; Monash
Vision Group, Monash University, Clayton, VIC Australia ; Australian Research
Council Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain Function, Monash University
Node, Clayton, VIC Australia.

Humans are diurnal primates with high visual acuity at the center of gaze.
Although primates share many similarities in the organization of their visual
centers with other mammals, and even other species of vertebrates, their visual
pathways also show unique features, particularly with respect to the organization
of the cerebral cortex. Therefore, in order to understand some aspects of human
visual function, we need to study non-human primate brains. Which species is the 
most appropriate model? Macaque monkeys, the most widely used non-human primates,
are not an optimal choice in many practical respects. For example, much of the
macaque cerebral cortex is buried within sulci, and is therefore inaccessible to 
many imaging techniques, and the postnatal development and lifespan of macaques
are prohibitively long for many studies of brain maturation, plasticity, and
aging. In these and several other respects the marmoset, a small New World
monkey, represents a more appropriate choice. Here we review the visual pathways 
of the marmoset, highlighting recent work that brings these advantages into
focus, and identify where additional work needs to be done to link marmoset brain
organization to that of macaques and humans. We will argue that the marmoset
monkey provides a good subject for studies of a complex visual system, which will
likely allow an important bridge linking experiments in animal models to humans.

DOI: 10.3389/fncir.2014.00096 
PMCID: PMC4126041
PMID: 25152716  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1374. PLoS Pathog. 2014 Aug 21;10(8):e1004250. doi: 10.1371/journal.ppat.1004250.
eCollection 2014 Aug.

Infection with MERS-CoV causes lethal pneumonia in the common marmoset.

Falzarano D(1), de Wit E(1), Feldmann F(2), Rasmussen AL(3), Okumura A(3), Peng
X(3), Thomas MJ(3), van Doremalen N(4), Haddock E(1), Nagy L(2), LaCasse R(2),
Liu T(5), Zhu J(5), McLellan JS(6), Scott DP(2), Katze MG(3), Feldmann H(7),
Munster VJ(4).

Author information: 
(1)Disease Modeling and Transmission, Laboratory of Virology, Division of
Intramural Research, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases,
National Institutes of Health, Rocky Mountain Laboratories, Hamilton, Montana,
United States of America.
(2)Rocky Mountain Veterinary Branch, Division of Intramural Research, National
Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, National Institutes of Health,
Rocky Mountain Laboratories, Hamilton, Montana, United States of America.
(3)Department of Microbiology, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington,
United States of America.
(4)Virus Ecology Unit, Laboratory of Virology, Division of Intramural Research,
National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, National Institutes of
Health, Rocky Mountain Laboratories, Hamilton, Montana, United States of America.
(5)Department of Immunology and Microbial Science, Department of Integrative
Structural and Computational Biology, The Scripps Research Institute, La Jolla,
California, United States of America.
(6)Department of Biochemistry, Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth, Hanover,
New Hampshire, United States of America.
(7)Disease Modeling and Transmission, Laboratory of Virology, Division of
Intramural Research, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases,
National Institutes of Health, Rocky Mountain Laboratories, Hamilton, Montana,
United States of America; Department of Medical Microbiology, University of
Manitoba, Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada.

Erratum in
    PLoS Pathog. 2014 Sep;10(9):e1004431.

The availability of a robust disease model is essential for the development of
countermeasures for Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV).
While a rhesus macaque model of MERS-CoV has been established, the lack of
uniform, severe disease in this model complicates the analysis of countermeasure 
studies. Modeling of the interaction between the MERS-CoV spike glycoprotein and 
its receptor dipeptidyl peptidase 4 predicted comparable interaction energies in 
common marmosets and humans. The suitability of the marmoset as a MERS-CoV model 
was tested by inoculation via combined intratracheal, intranasal, oral and ocular
routes. Most of the marmosets developed a progressive severe pneumonia leading to
euthanasia of some animals. Extensive lesions were evident in the lungs of all
animals necropsied at different time points post inoculation. Some animals were
also viremic; high viral loads were detected in the lungs of all infected
animals, and total RNAseq demonstrated the induction of immune and inflammatory
pathways. This is the first description of a severe, partially lethal, disease
model of MERS-CoV, and as such will have a major impact on the ability to assess 
the efficacy of vaccines and treatment strategies as well as allowing more
detailed pathogenesis studies.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.ppat.1004250 
PMCID: PMC4140844
PMID: 25144235  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

