

1374. PLoS Pathog. 2014 Aug 21;10(8):e1004250. doi: 10.1371/journal.ppat.1004250.
eCollection 2014 Aug.

Infection with MERS-CoV causes lethal pneumonia in the common marmoset.

Falzarano D(1), de Wit E(1), Feldmann F(2), Rasmussen AL(3), Okumura A(3), Peng
X(3), Thomas MJ(3), van Doremalen N(4), Haddock E(1), Nagy L(2), LaCasse R(2),
Liu T(5), Zhu J(5), McLellan JS(6), Scott DP(2), Katze MG(3), Feldmann H(7),
Munster VJ(4).

Author information: 
(1)Disease Modeling and Transmission, Laboratory of Virology, Division of
Intramural Research, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases,
National Institutes of Health, Rocky Mountain Laboratories, Hamilton, Montana,
United States of America.
(2)Rocky Mountain Veterinary Branch, Division of Intramural Research, National
Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, National Institutes of Health,
Rocky Mountain Laboratories, Hamilton, Montana, United States of America.
(3)Department of Microbiology, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington,
United States of America.
(4)Virus Ecology Unit, Laboratory of Virology, Division of Intramural Research,
National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, National Institutes of
Health, Rocky Mountain Laboratories, Hamilton, Montana, United States of America.
(5)Department of Immunology and Microbial Science, Department of Integrative
Structural and Computational Biology, The Scripps Research Institute, La Jolla,
California, United States of America.
(6)Department of Biochemistry, Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth, Hanover,
New Hampshire, United States of America.
(7)Disease Modeling and Transmission, Laboratory of Virology, Division of
Intramural Research, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases,
National Institutes of Health, Rocky Mountain Laboratories, Hamilton, Montana,
United States of America; Department of Medical Microbiology, University of
Manitoba, Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada.

Erratum in
    PLoS Pathog. 2014 Sep;10(9):e1004431.

The availability of a robust disease model is essential for the development of
countermeasures for Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV).
While a rhesus macaque model of MERS-CoV has been established, the lack of
uniform, severe disease in this model complicates the analysis of countermeasure 
studies. Modeling of the interaction between the MERS-CoV spike glycoprotein and 
its receptor dipeptidyl peptidase 4 predicted comparable interaction energies in 
common marmosets and humans. The suitability of the marmoset as a MERS-CoV model 
was tested by inoculation via combined intratracheal, intranasal, oral and ocular
routes. Most of the marmosets developed a progressive severe pneumonia leading to
euthanasia of some animals. Extensive lesions were evident in the lungs of all
animals necropsied at different time points post inoculation. Some animals were
also viremic; high viral loads were detected in the lungs of all infected
animals, and total RNAseq demonstrated the induction of immune and inflammatory
pathways. This is the first description of a severe, partially lethal, disease
model of MERS-CoV, and as such will have a major impact on the ability to assess 
the efficacy of vaccines and treatment strategies as well as allowing more
detailed pathogenesis studies.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.ppat.1004250 
PMCID: PMC4140844
PMID: 25144235  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1375. Lab Anim (NY). 2014 Sep;43(9):313-20. doi: 10.1038/laban.568.

Evaluation of ultrasonic vocalizations in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus)
as a potential indicator of welfare.

Bakker J(1), van Nijnatten TJ(2), Louwerse AL(1), Baarends G(3), Arndt SS(4),
Langermans JA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Animal Science Department, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Rijswijk, the
Netherlands.
(2)University of Applied Sciences HAS, Den Bosch, the Netherlands.
(3)1] University of Applied Sciences HAS, Den Bosch, the Netherlands. [2]
Department of Immunobiology, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Rijswijk, the
Netherlands.
(4)Department of Animals in Science &Society, Division of Animal Welfare
&Laboratory Animal Science, Utrecht University, the Netherlands.

The vocal repertoire in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) has been assumed to
consist not only of vocalizations audible to humans but also of ultrasonic
vocalizations (USVs). The use of USVs to socially indicate distress has not been 
evaluated in this species, however. The authors analyzed the ultrasonic vocal
repertoire of the common marmoset under normal housing conditions, under various 
experimental manipulations intended to elicit positive or negative emotional
responses and during stressful experiences including blood draw and exposure to a
perceived predator. Analysis of the recordings showed that marmosets produced
vocalizations with ultrasonic components as part of their normal vocal
repertoire, but these vocalizations all have audible components as well. Only 4
of the 13 types of vocalizations had ultrasonic components. These ultrasonic
components were not reliably associated with responses to different experimental 
manipulations, suggesting that they are not used to indicate pain, discomfort or 
distress.

DOI: 10.1038/laban.568 
PMID: 25141062  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

