

1375. Lab Anim (NY). 2014 Sep;43(9):313-20. doi: 10.1038/laban.568.

Evaluation of ultrasonic vocalizations in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus)
as a potential indicator of welfare.

Bakker J(1), van Nijnatten TJ(2), Louwerse AL(1), Baarends G(3), Arndt SS(4),
Langermans JA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Animal Science Department, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Rijswijk, the
Netherlands.
(2)University of Applied Sciences HAS, Den Bosch, the Netherlands.
(3)1] University of Applied Sciences HAS, Den Bosch, the Netherlands. [2]
Department of Immunobiology, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Rijswijk, the
Netherlands.
(4)Department of Animals in Science &Society, Division of Animal Welfare
&Laboratory Animal Science, Utrecht University, the Netherlands.

The vocal repertoire in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) has been assumed to
consist not only of vocalizations audible to humans but also of ultrasonic
vocalizations (USVs). The use of USVs to socially indicate distress has not been 
evaluated in this species, however. The authors analyzed the ultrasonic vocal
repertoire of the common marmoset under normal housing conditions, under various 
experimental manipulations intended to elicit positive or negative emotional
responses and during stressful experiences including blood draw and exposure to a
perceived predator. Analysis of the recordings showed that marmosets produced
vocalizations with ultrasonic components as part of their normal vocal
repertoire, but these vocalizations all have audible components as well. Only 4
of the 13 types of vocalizations had ultrasonic components. These ultrasonic
components were not reliably associated with responses to different experimental 
manipulations, suggesting that they are not used to indicate pain, discomfort or 
distress.

DOI: 10.1038/laban.568 
PMID: 25141062  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1376. Ann Neurol. 2014 Oct;76(4):594-608. doi: 10.1002/ana.24242. Epub 2014 Aug 21.

The formation of inflammatory demyelinated lesions in cerebral white matter.

Maggi P(1), Macri SM, Gaitán MI, Leibovitch E, Wholer JE, Knight HL, Ellis M, Wu 
T, Silva AC, Massacesi L, Jacobson S, Westmoreland S, Reich DS.

Author information: 
(1)National Institute for Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National Institutes 
of Health, Bethesda, MD, USA; Department of Neurosciences, Drug Research, and
Child's Health, University of Florence, Florence, Italy.

OBJECTIVE: Vascular permeability and inflammatory demyelination are intimately
linked in the brain, but what is their temporal relationship? We aimed to
determine the radiological correlates of the earliest tissue changes accompanying
demyelination in a primate model of multiple sclerosis (MS), experimental
autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) in the common marmoset.
METHODS: By 7T magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), T1 maps, proton density, and
T2-weighted images were acquired before and after EAE induction in 5 marmosets
(every other week before lesions appeared, weekly thereafter). From scans before 
and after intravenous injection of contrast material, we measured the evolution
of lesional blood-brain barrier (BBB) permeability, comparing in vivo MRI to
postmortem tissue examination.
RESULTS: On average, BBB permeability increased 3.5-fold (p < 0.0001) over the 4 
weeks prior to lesion appearance. Permeability gradually decreased after lesion
appearance, with attendant changes in the distribution of inflammatory cells
(predominantly macrophages and microglia) and demyelination. On tissue analysis, 
we also identified small perivascular foci of microglia and T cells without
blood-derived macrophages or demyelination. These foci had no visible MRI
correlates, although permeability within the foci, but not outside, increased in 
the weeks before the animals died (p < 0.0001).
INTERPRETATION: This study provides compelling evidence that in marmoset EAE,
which forms lesions strongly resembling those of MS, early changes in vascular
permeability are associated with perivascular inflammatory cuffing and
parenchymal microglial activation but precede the arrival of blood-derived
monocytes that accompany demyelination. Prospective detection of transient
permeability changes could afford an opportunity for early intervention to
forestall tissue damage in newly forming lesions.

© 2014 American Neurological Association.

DOI: 10.1002/ana.24242 
PMCID: PMC4723108
PMID: 25088017  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

