

1376. Ann Neurol. 2014 Oct;76(4):594-608. doi: 10.1002/ana.24242. Epub 2014 Aug 21.

The formation of inflammatory demyelinated lesions in cerebral white matter.

Maggi P(1), Macri SM, Gaitán MI, Leibovitch E, Wholer JE, Knight HL, Ellis M, Wu 
T, Silva AC, Massacesi L, Jacobson S, Westmoreland S, Reich DS.

Author information: 
(1)National Institute for Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National Institutes 
of Health, Bethesda, MD, USA; Department of Neurosciences, Drug Research, and
Child's Health, University of Florence, Florence, Italy.

OBJECTIVE: Vascular permeability and inflammatory demyelination are intimately
linked in the brain, but what is their temporal relationship? We aimed to
determine the radiological correlates of the earliest tissue changes accompanying
demyelination in a primate model of multiple sclerosis (MS), experimental
autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) in the common marmoset.
METHODS: By 7T magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), T1 maps, proton density, and
T2-weighted images were acquired before and after EAE induction in 5 marmosets
(every other week before lesions appeared, weekly thereafter). From scans before 
and after intravenous injection of contrast material, we measured the evolution
of lesional blood-brain barrier (BBB) permeability, comparing in vivo MRI to
postmortem tissue examination.
RESULTS: On average, BBB permeability increased 3.5-fold (p < 0.0001) over the 4 
weeks prior to lesion appearance. Permeability gradually decreased after lesion
appearance, with attendant changes in the distribution of inflammatory cells
(predominantly macrophages and microglia) and demyelination. On tissue analysis, 
we also identified small perivascular foci of microglia and T cells without
blood-derived macrophages or demyelination. These foci had no visible MRI
correlates, although permeability within the foci, but not outside, increased in 
the weeks before the animals died (p < 0.0001).
INTERPRETATION: This study provides compelling evidence that in marmoset EAE,
which forms lesions strongly resembling those of MS, early changes in vascular
permeability are associated with perivascular inflammatory cuffing and
parenchymal microglial activation but precede the arrival of blood-derived
monocytes that accompany demyelination. Prospective detection of transient
permeability changes could afford an opportunity for early intervention to
forestall tissue damage in newly forming lesions.

© 2014 American Neurological Association.

DOI: 10.1002/ana.24242 
PMCID: PMC4723108
PMID: 25088017  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1377. PLoS One. 2014 Jul 31;9(7):e103714. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0103714.
eCollection 2014.

5meCpG epigenetic marks neighboring a primate-conserved core promoter short
tandem repeat indicate X-chromosome inactivation.

Machado FB(1), Machado FB(2), Faria MA(2), Lovatel VL(2), Alves da Silva AF(3),
Radic CP(4), De Brasi CD(4), Rios ÁF(2), de Sousa Lopes SM(5), da Silveira LS(6),
Ruiz-Miranda CR(7), Ramos ES(1), Medina-Acosta E(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, School of Medicine, University of São Paulo, Ribeirão 
Preto, São Paulo, Brazil.
(2)Laboratory of Biotechnology, Universidade Estadual do Norte Fluminense Darcy
Ribeiro, Campos do Goytacazes, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
(3)Laboratory of Biotechnology, Universidade Estadual do Norte Fluminense Darcy
Ribeiro, Campos do Goytacazes, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil; Molecular Identification
and Diagnostics Unit, Hospital Escola Álvaro Alvim, Campos dos Goytacazes, Rio de
Janeiro, Brazil.
(4)Laboratory of Molecular Genetics of Hemophilia, Institute of Experimental
Medicine, National Academy of Medicine, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
(5)Department of Anatomy and Embryology, Leiden University Medical Center,
Leiden, South Holland, the Netherlands.
(6)Laboratory of Animal Morphology and Pathology, Center for Studies and Research
in Wildlife, Universidade Estadual do Norte Fluminense Darcy Ribeiro, Campos do
Goytacazes, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
(7)Laboratory of Environmental Sciences, Sector of Studies of Ethology,
Reintroduction and Conservation of Wild Animals, Universidade Estadual do Norte
Fluminense Darcy Ribeiro, Campos do Goytacazes, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.

X-chromosome inactivation (XCI) is the epigenetic transcriptional silencing of an
X-chromosome during the early stages of embryonic development in female eutherian
mammals. XCI assures monoallelic expression in each cell and compensation for
dosage-sensitive X-linked genes between females (XX) and males (XY). DNA
methylation at the carbon-5 position of the cytosine pyrimidine ring in the
context of a CpG dinucleotide sequence (5meCpG) in promoter regions is a key
epigenetic marker for transcriptional gene silencing. Using computational
analysis, we revealed an extragenic tandem GAAA repeat 230-bp from the landmark
CpG island of the human X-linked retinitis pigmentosa 2 RP2 promoter whose 5meCpG
status correlates with XCI. We used this RP2 onshore tandem GAAA repeat to
develop an allele-specific 5meCpG-based PCR assay that is highly concordant with 
the human androgen receptor (AR) exonic tandem CAG repeat-based standard HUMARA
assay in discriminating active (Xa) from inactive (Xi) X-chromosomes. The RP2
onshore tandem GAAA repeat contains neutral features that are lacking in the AR
disease-linked tandem CAG repeat, is highly polymorphic (heterozygosity rates
approximately 0.8) and shows minimal variation in the Xa/Xi ratio. The combined
informativeness of RP2/AR is approximately 0.97, and this assay excels at
determining the 5meCpG status of alleles at the Xp (RP2) and Xq (AR) chromosome
arms in a single reaction. These findings are relevant and directly translatable 
to nonhuman primate models of XCI in which the AR CAG-repeat is monomorphic. We
conducted the RP2 onshore tandem GAAA repeat assay in the naturally occurring
chimeric New World monkey marmoset (Callitrichidae) and found it to be
informative. The RP2 onshore tandem GAAA repeat will facilitate studies on the
variable phenotypic expression of dominant and recessive X-linked diseases,
epigenetic changes in twins, the physiology of aging hematopoiesis, the
pathogenesis of age-related hematopoietic malignancies and the clonality of
cancers in human and nonhuman primates.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0103714 
PMCID: PMC4117532
PMID: 25078280  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

