

1377. PLoS One. 2014 Jul 31;9(7):e103714. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0103714.
eCollection 2014.

5meCpG epigenetic marks neighboring a primate-conserved core promoter short
tandem repeat indicate X-chromosome inactivation.

Machado FB(1), Machado FB(2), Faria MA(2), Lovatel VL(2), Alves da Silva AF(3),
Radic CP(4), De Brasi CD(4), Rios ÁF(2), de Sousa Lopes SM(5), da Silveira LS(6),
Ruiz-Miranda CR(7), Ramos ES(1), Medina-Acosta E(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, School of Medicine, University of São Paulo, Ribeirão 
Preto, São Paulo, Brazil.
(2)Laboratory of Biotechnology, Universidade Estadual do Norte Fluminense Darcy
Ribeiro, Campos do Goytacazes, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
(3)Laboratory of Biotechnology, Universidade Estadual do Norte Fluminense Darcy
Ribeiro, Campos do Goytacazes, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil; Molecular Identification
and Diagnostics Unit, Hospital Escola Álvaro Alvim, Campos dos Goytacazes, Rio de
Janeiro, Brazil.
(4)Laboratory of Molecular Genetics of Hemophilia, Institute of Experimental
Medicine, National Academy of Medicine, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
(5)Department of Anatomy and Embryology, Leiden University Medical Center,
Leiden, South Holland, the Netherlands.
(6)Laboratory of Animal Morphology and Pathology, Center for Studies and Research
in Wildlife, Universidade Estadual do Norte Fluminense Darcy Ribeiro, Campos do
Goytacazes, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
(7)Laboratory of Environmental Sciences, Sector of Studies of Ethology,
Reintroduction and Conservation of Wild Animals, Universidade Estadual do Norte
Fluminense Darcy Ribeiro, Campos do Goytacazes, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.

X-chromosome inactivation (XCI) is the epigenetic transcriptional silencing of an
X-chromosome during the early stages of embryonic development in female eutherian
mammals. XCI assures monoallelic expression in each cell and compensation for
dosage-sensitive X-linked genes between females (XX) and males (XY). DNA
methylation at the carbon-5 position of the cytosine pyrimidine ring in the
context of a CpG dinucleotide sequence (5meCpG) in promoter regions is a key
epigenetic marker for transcriptional gene silencing. Using computational
analysis, we revealed an extragenic tandem GAAA repeat 230-bp from the landmark
CpG island of the human X-linked retinitis pigmentosa 2 RP2 promoter whose 5meCpG
status correlates with XCI. We used this RP2 onshore tandem GAAA repeat to
develop an allele-specific 5meCpG-based PCR assay that is highly concordant with 
the human androgen receptor (AR) exonic tandem CAG repeat-based standard HUMARA
assay in discriminating active (Xa) from inactive (Xi) X-chromosomes. The RP2
onshore tandem GAAA repeat contains neutral features that are lacking in the AR
disease-linked tandem CAG repeat, is highly polymorphic (heterozygosity rates
approximately 0.8) and shows minimal variation in the Xa/Xi ratio. The combined
informativeness of RP2/AR is approximately 0.97, and this assay excels at
determining the 5meCpG status of alleles at the Xp (RP2) and Xq (AR) chromosome
arms in a single reaction. These findings are relevant and directly translatable 
to nonhuman primate models of XCI in which the AR CAG-repeat is monomorphic. We
conducted the RP2 onshore tandem GAAA repeat assay in the naturally occurring
chimeric New World monkey marmoset (Callitrichidae) and found it to be
informative. The RP2 onshore tandem GAAA repeat will facilitate studies on the
variable phenotypic expression of dominant and recessive X-linked diseases,
epigenetic changes in twins, the physiology of aging hematopoiesis, the
pathogenesis of age-related hematopoietic malignancies and the clonality of
cancers in human and nonhuman primates.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0103714 
PMCID: PMC4117532
PMID: 25078280  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1378. Mol Ther Methods Clin Dev. 2014 Feb 5;1. pii: 10.

Marmosets as a preclinical model for testing "off-label" use of doxycycline to
turn on Flt3L expression from high-capacity adenovirus vectors.

VanderVeen N(1), Paran C(1), Appelhans A(1), Krasinkiewicz J(1), Lemons R(1),
Appelman H(2), Doherty R(1), Palmer D(3), Ng P(3), Lowenstein PR(1), Castro
MG(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, The University of Michigan School of Medicine, Ann
Arbor, Michigan, USA ; Department of Cell and Developmental Biology, The
University of Michigan School of Medicine, Ann Arbor, Michigan, USA.
(2)Department of Pathology, The University of Michigan School of Medicine,
University Hospital, Ann Arbor, Michigan, USA.
(3)Department of Molecular and Human Genetics, Baylor College of Medicine,
Houston, Texas, USA.

We developed a combined conditional cytotoxic, i.e., herpes simplex type
1-thymidine kinase (TK), plus immune-stimulatory, i.e., fms-like tyrosine kinase 
ligand-3-mediated gene therapy for glioblastoma multiforme (GBM). Therapeutic
transgenes were encoded within high-capacity adenoviral vectors (HC-Ad); TK was
expressed constitutively, while Flt3L was under the control of the TetOn
regulatable promoter. We previously assessed efficacy and safety in intracranial 
GBM rodent models. But, since this approach involves expression of a cytokine
within the brain, we chose the nonhuman primate, i.e., Callithrix jaccus
(marmoset) as it has been established that its immune response shares
similarities with man. We characterized the safety, cell-type specific
expression, and doxycycline (DOX)-inducibility of HC-Ad-TetOn-Flt3L delivered
within the striatum. We used allometrically scaled DOX doses delivered orally,
twice daily for one month, mimicking the route and duration of DOX administration
planned for the GBM trial. Flt3L was effectively expressed within astrocytes,
microglia, oligodendrocytes, and neurons. No evidence of brain or systemic
toxicities due to the treatment was encountered. Our data indicate that DOX doses
equivalent to those used in humans to treat infections can be safely used
"off-label" to turn "on" therapeutic gene expression from HC-Ad-TetOn-Flt3L;
providing evidence for the safety of this approach in the clinic.

DOI: 10.1038/mtm.2013.10 
PMCID: PMC4111110
PMID: 25068145 

