

1381. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2015 May;70(5):577-87. doi: 10.1093/gerona/glu101.
Epub 2014 Jul 19.

Testing efficacy of administration of the antiaging drug rapamycin in a nonhuman 
primate, the common marmoset.

Tardif S(1), Ross C(2), Bergman P(3), Fernandez E(4), Javors M(3), Salmon A(4),
Spross J(3), Strong R(2), Richardson A(5).

Author information: 
(1)Barshop Institute for Longevity and Aging Studies, University of Texas Health 
Science Center San Antonio. Southwest National Primate Research Center, Texas
Biomedical Research Institute, San Antonio. tardif@uthscsa.edu.
(2)Barshop Institute for Longevity and Aging Studies, University of Texas Health 
Science Center San Antonio. Department of Arts & Sciences, Texas A&M-San Antonio.
(3)Barshop Institute for Longevity and Aging Studies, University of Texas Health 
Science Center San Antonio.
(4)Barshop Institute for Longevity and Aging Studies, University of Texas Health 
Science Center San Antonio. Geriatric Research, Education and Clinical Center,
South Texas Veteran's Health Care System, San Antonio.
(5)University of Oklahoma Health Sciences Center and the Oklahoma City VA Medical
Center.

This report is the first description of dosing procedures, pharmacokinetics,
biochemical action, and general tolerability of the antiaging drug rapamycin in
the common marmoset, a small and short-lived monkey. Eudragit-encapsulated
rapamycin was given orally to trained marmosets in a short-term (3 weeks) and a
long-term (14 months) study. Circulating trough rapamycin levels (mean = 5.2
ng/mL; 1.93-10.73 ng/mL) achieved at roughly 1.0 mg/kg/day was comparable to
those reported in studies of rodents and within the therapeutic range for humans.
Long-term treated animals (6/8) indicated a reduction in mammalian target of
rapamycin complex 1 signaling as noted by a decrease in the phospho rpS6 to total
rpS6 ratio after 2 weeks of treatment. All long-term treated subjects had
detectable concentrations of rapamycin in liver (4.7-19.9 pg/mg) and adipose
tissue (2.2-32.8 pg/mg) with reduced mammalian target of rapamycin signaling in
these tissues. There was no evidence of clinical anemia, fibrotic lung changes,
or mouth ulcers. The observed death rate in the long-term study was as expected
given the animals' ages. The ability to rapidly and reliably dose socially housed
marmosets with an oral form of rapamycin that is well tolerated and that
demonstrates a suppression of the mammalian target of rapamycin pathway leads us 
to conclude that this species offers a viable model for rapamycin testing to
establish safety and efficacy for long-term antiaging intervention.

© The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The
Gerontological Society of America. All rights reserved. For permissions, please
e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/glu101 
PMCID: PMC4400395
PMID: 25038772  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1382. Nat Genet. 2014 Aug;46(8):850-7. doi: 10.1038/ng.3042. Epub 2014 Jul 20.

The common marmoset genome provides insight into primate biology and evolution.

Marmoset Genome Sequencing and Analysis Consortium.

Collaborators: Worley KC, Warren WC, Rogers J, Locke D, Muzny DM, Mardis ER,
Weinstock GM, Tardif SD, Aagaard KM, Archidiacono N, Rayan NA, Batzer MA, Beal K,
Brejova B, Capozzi O, Capuano SB, Casola C, Chandrabose MM, Cree A, Dao MD, de
Jong PJ, Del Rosario RC, Delehaunty KD, Dinh HH, Eichler EE, Fitzgerald S, Flicek
P, Fontenot CC, Fowler RG, Fronick C, Fulton LA, Fulton RS, Gabisi RA, Gerlach D,
Graves TA, Gunaratne PH, Hahn MW, Haig D, Han Y, Harris RA, Herrero J, Hillier
LW, Hubley R, Hughes JF, Hume J, Jhangiani SN, Jorde LB, Joshi V, Karakor E,
Konkel MK, Kosiol C, Kovar CL, Kriventseva EV, Lee SL, Lewis LR, Liu YS, Lopez J,
Lopez-Otin C, Lorente-Galdos B, Mansfield KG, Marques-Bonet T, Minx P, Misceo D, 
Moncrieff JS, Morgan MB, Nazareth LV, Newsham I, Nguyen NB, Okwuonu GO, Prabhakar
S, Perales L, Pu LL, Puente XS, Quesada V, Ranck MC, Raney BJ, Raveendran M,
Deiros DR, Rocchi M, Rodriguez D, Ross C, Ruffier M, Ruiz SJ, Sajjadian S,
Santibanez J, Schrider DR, Searle S, Skaletsky H, Soibam B, Smit AF, Tennakoon
JB, Tomaska L, Ullmer B, Vejnar CE, Ventura M, Vilella AJ, Vinar T, Vogel JH,
Walker JA, Wang Q, Warner CM, Wildman DE, Witherspoon DJ, Wright RA, Wu Y, Xiao
W, Xing J, Zdobnov EM, Zhu B, Gibbs RA, Wilson RK.

We report the whole-genome sequence of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). 
The 2.26-Gb genome of a female marmoset was assembled using Sanger read data (6×)
and a whole-genome shotgun strategy. A first analysis has permitted comparison
with the genomes of apes and Old World monkeys and the identification of specific
features that might contribute to the unique biology of this diminutive primate, 
including genetic changes that may influence body size, frequent twinning and
chimerism. We observed positive selection in growth hormone/insulin-like growth
factor genes (growth pathways), respiratory complex I genes (metabolic pathways),
and genes encoding immunobiological factors and proteases (reproductive and
immunity pathways). In addition, both protein-coding and microRNA genes related
to reproduction exhibited evidence of rapid sequence evolution. This genome
sequence for a New World monkey enables increased power for comparative analyses 
among available primate genomes and facilitates biomedical research application.

DOI: 10.1038/ng.3042 
PMCID: PMC4138798
PMID: 25038751  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

