

1382. Nat Genet. 2014 Aug;46(8):850-7. doi: 10.1038/ng.3042. Epub 2014 Jul 20.

The common marmoset genome provides insight into primate biology and evolution.

Marmoset Genome Sequencing and Analysis Consortium.

Collaborators: Worley KC, Warren WC, Rogers J, Locke D, Muzny DM, Mardis ER,
Weinstock GM, Tardif SD, Aagaard KM, Archidiacono N, Rayan NA, Batzer MA, Beal K,
Brejova B, Capozzi O, Capuano SB, Casola C, Chandrabose MM, Cree A, Dao MD, de
Jong PJ, Del Rosario RC, Delehaunty KD, Dinh HH, Eichler EE, Fitzgerald S, Flicek
P, Fontenot CC, Fowler RG, Fronick C, Fulton LA, Fulton RS, Gabisi RA, Gerlach D,
Graves TA, Gunaratne PH, Hahn MW, Haig D, Han Y, Harris RA, Herrero J, Hillier
LW, Hubley R, Hughes JF, Hume J, Jhangiani SN, Jorde LB, Joshi V, Karakor E,
Konkel MK, Kosiol C, Kovar CL, Kriventseva EV, Lee SL, Lewis LR, Liu YS, Lopez J,
Lopez-Otin C, Lorente-Galdos B, Mansfield KG, Marques-Bonet T, Minx P, Misceo D, 
Moncrieff JS, Morgan MB, Nazareth LV, Newsham I, Nguyen NB, Okwuonu GO, Prabhakar
S, Perales L, Pu LL, Puente XS, Quesada V, Ranck MC, Raney BJ, Raveendran M,
Deiros DR, Rocchi M, Rodriguez D, Ross C, Ruffier M, Ruiz SJ, Sajjadian S,
Santibanez J, Schrider DR, Searle S, Skaletsky H, Soibam B, Smit AF, Tennakoon
JB, Tomaska L, Ullmer B, Vejnar CE, Ventura M, Vilella AJ, Vinar T, Vogel JH,
Walker JA, Wang Q, Warner CM, Wildman DE, Witherspoon DJ, Wright RA, Wu Y, Xiao
W, Xing J, Zdobnov EM, Zhu B, Gibbs RA, Wilson RK.

We report the whole-genome sequence of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). 
The 2.26-Gb genome of a female marmoset was assembled using Sanger read data (6×)
and a whole-genome shotgun strategy. A first analysis has permitted comparison
with the genomes of apes and Old World monkeys and the identification of specific
features that might contribute to the unique biology of this diminutive primate, 
including genetic changes that may influence body size, frequent twinning and
chimerism. We observed positive selection in growth hormone/insulin-like growth
factor genes (growth pathways), respiratory complex I genes (metabolic pathways),
and genes encoding immunobiological factors and proteases (reproductive and
immunity pathways). In addition, both protein-coding and microRNA genes related
to reproduction exhibited evidence of rapid sequence evolution. This genome
sequence for a New World monkey enables increased power for comparative analyses 
among available primate genomes and facilitates biomedical research application.

DOI: 10.1038/ng.3042 
PMCID: PMC4138798
PMID: 25038751  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1383. Psychoneuroendocrinology. 2014 Nov;49:1-10. doi: 10.1016/j.psyneuen.2014.06.020. 
Epub 2014 Jul 3.

Oxytocin facilitates fidelity in well-established marmoset pairs by reducing
sociosexual behavior toward opposite-sex strangers.

Cavanaugh J(1), Mustoe AC(2), Taylor JH(2), French JA(3).

Author information: 
(1)Callitrichid Research Center, Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska
- Omaha, USA. Electronic address: jonryancavanaug@unomaha.edu.
(2)Callitrichid Research Center, Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska
- Omaha, USA.
(3)Callitrichid Research Center, Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska
- Omaha, USA; Department of Biology, University of Nebraska - Omaha, USA.

Behavioral strategies that facilitate the maintenance of social bonds are
critical for the preservation of high-quality social relationships. Central
oxytocin (OT) activity modulates the behavioral features of socially monogamous
relationships in a number of mammalian species (including marmoset monkeys), and 
plays a vital role in the behavioral maintenance of long-term social
relationships. Two distinct variants of OT have been identified in some New World
primates (including marmosets; Lee et al., 2011). The marmoset variant of the
oxytocin ligand (Pro(8)-OT) is structurally distinct from the consensus mammalian
variant of the oxytocin ligand (Leu(8)-OT), due to a proline substitution at the 
8th amino-acid position. The goal of the present study was to determine if
treating marmosets with Pro(8)-OT, relative to treatments with Leu(8)-OT, control
saline, or an OT antagonist, had modulatory effects on the behavioral maintenance
of long-term social relationships in marmosets. Treatment with the Pro(8)
variant, but not the Leu(8) variant, of OT facilitated fidelity with a long-term 
partner by reducing time spent in close proximity with an opposite-sex stranger. 
However, this facilitative effect of Pro(8)-OT on proximity behavior manifested
itself differently in male and female marmosets, such that females preferred to
interact socially with their partner rather than a stranger when treated with
Pro(8)-OT, while males spent less time in close proximity with both their partner
and a stranger when treated with Pro(8)-OT. Furthermore, treatment with
Pro(8)-OT, but not Leu(8)-OT, significantly delayed the expression of sexual
solicitation behavior toward an opposite-sex stranger in both male and female
marmosets, but had no effect on sociosexual behavior directed toward a long-term 
partner. These results suggest that the OT system is highly involved in reducing 
fidelity-threatening behaviors in well-established marmoset pairs, and that the
effects were only produced by species-specific OT ligands.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.psyneuen.2014.06.020 
PMCID: PMC4165758
PMID: 25038478  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

