

1385. Arthritis Res Ther. 2014 Jul 8;16(4):R143. doi: 10.1186/ar4605.

Type II collagen antibody response is enriched in the synovial fluid of
rheumatoid joints and directed to the same major epitopes as in collagen induced 
arthritis in primates and mice.

Lindh I, Snir O, Lönnblom E, Uysal H, Andersson I, Nandakumar KS, Vierboom M, 't 
Hart B, Malmström V, Holmdahl R.

INTRODUCTION: Antibodies towards type II collagen (CII) are detected in patients 
with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and in non-human primates and rodents with
collagen induced arthritis (CIA). We have previously shown that antibodies
specific for several CII-epitopes are pathogenic using monoclonal antibodies from
arthritic mice, although the role of different anti-CII epitopes has not been
investigated in detail in other species. We therefore performed an inter-species 
comparative study of the autoantibody response to CII in patients with RA versus 
monkeys and mice with CIA.
METHODS: Analysis of the full epitope repertoire along the disease course of CIA 
was performed using a library of CII triple-helical peptides. The antibody
responses to the major CII epitopes were analyzed in sera and synovial fluid from
RA patients, and in sera from rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta), common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus) and mice.
RESULTS: Many CII epitopes including the major C1, U1, and J1 were associated
with established CIA and arginine residues played an important role in the
anti-CII antibody interactions. The major epitopes were also recognized in RA
patients, both in sera and even more pronounced in synovial fluid: 77% of the
patients had antibodies to the U1 epitope. The anti-CII immune response was not
restricted to the anti-citrulline protein antibodies (ACPA) positive RA group.
CONCLUSION: CII conformational dependent antibody responses are common in RA and 
are likely to originate from rheumatoid joints but did not show a correlation
with ACPA response. Importantly, the fine specificity of the anti-CII response is
similar with CIA in monkeys and rodents where the recognized epitopes are
conserved and have a major pathogenic role. Thus, anti-CII antibodies may both
contribute to, as well as be the consequence of, local joint inflammation.

DOI: 10.1186/ar4605 
PMCID: PMC4226996
PMID: 25005029  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1386. J Biol Regul Homeost Agents. 2014 Apr-Jun;28(2):183-93.

Allogeneic and xenogeneic anti-tumor effect of callithrix jacchus natural killer 
cells is dependent on NKp30 and B7-H6 interaction.

Müller T(1), Schlahsa L(1), Zhang HJ(1), Skaik Y(1), Eiz-Vesper B(1), Immenschuh 
S(1), Blasczyk R(1), Figueiredo C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Transfusion Medicine, Hannover Medical School, Hannover,
Germany.

Natural Killer (NK) cells mount a fast and efficient immune response against
tumor cells and are currently a major focus in the development of anti-cancer
cell-based therapies. Due to major differences between the murine and human NK
cell receptor system, a non-human primate model would be helpful to evaluate the 
efficiency of NK-cell based therapies prior to clinical applications. In humans, 
B7-H6 has been shown to facilitate the elimination of lymphoma cells through the 
interaction with its receptor NKp30. The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is 
a new world monkey readily used in biomedical research due to its easy management
and proximity to humans. In this study, we demonstrated the expression of B7-H6
antigen in marmoset B-lymphoblastoid cell lines. In addition, a method was
established to isolate B- or NK-cells from peripheral blood of marmosets with
purities of up to 97%We detected the expression of B7-H6 in lymphoma cells and
for the first time in leukemic blasts of human acute myeloid leukemia (AML).
Marmoset NK cells were shown to lyse marmoset B lymphoblastoid cell line (B-LCL) 
cells by up to 28.4% and human B-LCL cells by up to 20%. This effect was
abrogated when the NK cells were pre-treated with an anti-NKp30 specific
antibody. Also, marmoset NK cells were able to lyse primary leukemic AML cells
and lymphoma cells by up to 8.3 and 20.3%respectively. Stimulation of marmoset NK
cells with recombinant B7-H6 induced phosphorylation of ERK1/2 and proliferation 
rates. Furthermore, the secretion of IL-1β, IL-8, IFN-γ and TNF-α was
significantly increased upon B7-H6 stimulation. In conclusion, we demonstrated
that non-human primate NK cells have similar mechanisms for the lysis of tumor
cells as human NK cells. Thus, this animal model constitutes a very promising
tool for the development and evaluation of novel NK-cell based therapies.


PMID: 25001651  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

