

1390. Biomed Res Int. 2014;2014:927685. doi: 10.1155/2014/927685. Epub 2014 May 27.

Individual differences in gambling proneness among rats and common marmosets: an 
automated choice task.

Zoratto F(1), Sinclair E(2), Manciocco A(3), Vitale A(2), Laviola G(2), Adriani
W(2).

Author information: 
(1)Section of Behavioural Neuroscience, Department of Cell Biology and
Neurosciences, Istituto Superiore di Sanità, Viale Regina Elena 299, 00161 Rome, 
Italy ; Bambino Gesù Children's Hospital IRCCS, Rome, Italy.
(2)Section of Behavioural Neuroscience, Department of Cell Biology and
Neurosciences, Istituto Superiore di Sanità, Viale Regina Elena 299, 00161 Rome, 
Italy.
(3)Section of Behavioural Neuroscience, Department of Cell Biology and
Neurosciences, Istituto Superiore di Sanità, Viale Regina Elena 299, 00161 Rome, 
Italy ; Istituto di Scienze e Tecnologie della Cognizione, National Research
Council (ISTC-CNR), Rome, Italy.

Interest is rising for animal modeling of pathological gambling. Using the
operant probabilistic-delivery task (PDT), gambling proneness can be evaluated in
laboratory animals. Drawing a comparison with rats, this study evaluated the
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) using a PDT. By nose- or hand-poking,
subjects learnt to prefer a large (LLL, 5-6 pellets) over a small (SS, 1-2
pellets) reward and, subsequently, the probability of occurrence of large-reward 
delivery was decreased progressively to very low levels (from 100% to 17% and
14%). As probability decreased, subjects showed a great versus little shift in
preference from LLL to SS reinforcer. Hence, two distinct subpopulations
("non-gambler" versus "gambler") were differentiated within each species. A proof
of the model validity comes from marmosets' reaction to reward-delivery omission.
Namely, depending on individual temperament ("gambler" versus "non-gambler"),
they showed either persistence (i.e., inadequate pokes towards LLL) or
restlessness (i.e., inadequate pokes towards SS), respectively. In conclusion,
the marmoset could be a suitable model for preclinical gambling studies.
Implementation of the PDT to species other than rats may be relevant for
determining its external validity/generalizability and improving its
face/construct validity.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/927685 
PMCID: PMC4058269
PMID: 24971360  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1391. Hum Reprod. 2014 Sep;29(9):2018-31. doi: 10.1093/humrep/deu157. Epub 2014 Jun 24.

Separation of somatic and germ cells is required to establish primate
spermatogonial cultures.

Langenstroth D(1), Kossack N(1), Westernströer B(1), Wistuba J(1), Behr R(2),
Gromoll J(1), Schlatt S(3).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Reproduction and Regenerative Biology, Centre of Reproductive
Medicine and Andrology, Albert-Schweitzer-Campus 1, Building D11, 48149 Münster, 
Germany.
(2)Stem Cell Biology Unit, German Primate Center, Kellnerweg 4, 37077 Göttingen, 
Germany.
(3)Institute of Reproduction and Regenerative Biology, Centre of Reproductive
Medicine and Andrology, Albert-Schweitzer-Campus 1, Building D11, 48149 Münster, 
Germany stefan.schlatt@ukmuenster.de.

STUDY QUESTION: Can primate spermatogonial cultures be optimized by application
of separation steps and well defined culture conditions?
SUMMARY ANSWER: We identified the cell fraction which provides the best source
for primate spermatogonia when prolonged culture is desired.
WHAT IS KNOWN ALREADY: Man and marmoset show similar characteristics in regard to
germ cell development and function. Several protocols for isolation and culture
of human testis-derived germline stem cells have been described. Subsequent
analysis revealed doubts on the germline origin of these cells and characterized 
them as mesenchymal stem cells or fibroblasts. Studies using marmosets as
preclinical model confirmed that the published isolation protocols did not lead
to propagation of germline cells.
STUDY DESIGN, SIZE, DURATION: Testicular cells derived from nine adult marmoset
monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) were cultured for 1, 3, 6 and 11 days and
consecutively analyzed for the presence of spermatogonia, differentiating germ
cells and testicular somatic cells.
PARTICIPANTS/MATERIALS, SETTING, METHODS: Testicular tissue of nine adult
marmoset monkeys was enzymatically dissociated and subjected to two different
cell culture approaches. In the first approach all cells were kept in the same
dish (non-separate culture, n = 5). In the second approach the supernatant cells 
were transferred into a new dish 24 h after seeding and subsequently supernatant 
and attached cells were cultured separately (separate culture, n = 4). Real-time 
quantitative PCR and immunofluorescence were used to analyze the expression of
reliable germ cell and somatic markers throughout the culture period. Germ cell
transplantation assays and subsequent wholemount analyses were performed to
functionally evaluate the colonization of spermatogonial cells.
MAIN RESULTS AND THE ROLE OF CHANCE: This is the first report revealing an
efficient isolation and culture of putative marmoset spermatogonial stem cells
with colonization ability. Our results indicate that a separation of
spermatogonia from testicular somatic cells is a crucial step during cell
preparation. We identified the overgrowth of more rapidly expanding somatic cells
to be a major problem when establishing spermatogonial cultures. Initiating germ 
cell cultures from the supernatant and maintaining germ cells in suspension
cultures minimized the somatic cell contamination and provided enriched germ cell
fractions which displayed after 11 days of culture a significantly higher
expression of germ cell markers genes (DDX-4, MAGE A-4; P < 0.05) compared with
separately cultured attached cells. Additionally, germ cell transplantation
experiments demonstrated a significantly higher absolute number of cells with
colonization ability (P < 0.001) in supernatant cells after 11 days of separate
culture.
LIMITATIONS, REASONS FOR CAUTION: This study presents a relevant aspect for the
successful setup of spermatogonial cultures but provides limited data regarding
the question of whether the long-term maintenance of spermatogonia can be
achieved. Transfer of these preclinical data to man may require modifications of 
the protocol.
WIDER IMPLICATIONS OF THE FINDINGS: Spermatogonial cultures from rodents have
become important and innovative tools for basic and applied research in
reproductive biology and veterinary medicine. It is expected that
spermatogonia-based strategies will be transformed into clinical applications for
the treatment of male infertility. Our data in the marmoset monkey may be highly 
relevant to establish spermatogonial cultures of human testes.
STUDY FUNDING/COMPETING INTERESTS: Funding was provided by the DFG-Research Unit 
FOR 1041 Germ Cell Potential (SCHL394/11-2) and by the Graduate Program Cell
Dynamics and Disease (CEDAD) together with the International Max Planck Research 
School - Molecular Biomedicine (IMPRS-MBM). The authors declare that there is no 
conflict of interest.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: Not applicable.

© The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the European
Society of Human Reproduction and Embryology. All rights reserved. For
Permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/humrep/deu157 
PMID: 24963164  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

