

140. Naunyn Schmiedebergs Arch Pharmacol. 2021 Aug;394(8):1685-1692. doi:
10.1007/s00210-021-02090-6. Epub 2021 May 8.

Further characterisation of psychosis-like behaviours induced by L-DOPA in the
MPTP-lesioned marmoset.

Kwan C(1), Nuara SG(2), Gourdon JC(2), Huot P(3)(4)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Group, Montreal Neurological Institute-Hospital (The
Neuro), 3801 University St, Montreal, QC, H3A 2B4, Canada.
(2)Comparative Medicine & Animal Resource Centre, McGill University, Montreal,
QC, Canada.
(3)Neurodegenerative Disease Group, Montreal Neurological Institute-Hospital (The
Neuro), 3801 University St, Montreal, QC, H3A 2B4, Canada.
philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.
(4)Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, McGill University, Montreal, QC,
Canada. philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.
(5)Movement Disorder Clinic, Division of Neurology, Department of Neuroscience,
McGill University Health Centre, Montreal, QC, Canada. philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.

Parkinson's disease (PD) psychosis afflicts over half of patients and poses a
significant burden on quality of life. The aetiology of PD psychosis is
multifactorial and likely arises from the complex interaction between dopamine
replacement therapy and disease state. The
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-lesioned common marmoset is a
validated model to predict the efficacy of therapeutic compounds for
treatment-related complications, including PD psychosis. In this model,
psychosis-like behaviours (PLBs) encompass stereotypies that are idiosyncratic in
nature and reproducible with each L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylanaline (L-DOPA)
administration. In the present study, we sought to expand upon the existing
repertoire of PLBs through the characterisation of novel stereotypical behaviours
that appear dependent on the environment. We then discuss our findings in the
context of clinical reports on stereotypical behaviours termed "punding" in
subjects with PD, which consists of stereotypical repetitive and senseless
behaviours. The poor understanding of the pathophysiology governing punding and
consequent lack of effective therapies stand to benefit from enhanced
characterisation of these stereotypical behaviours in a validated pre-clinical
model. We hope that further characterisation of PLBs in the MPTP-lesioned
marmoset will be helpful in the evaluation of interventions that seek to
alleviate PD psychosis symptoms.

© 2021. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany,
part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00210-021-02090-6 
PMID: 33963876  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


141. Am J Primatol. 2021 Nov;83(11):e23254. doi: 10.1002/ajp.23254. Epub 2021 May 7.

Studies of aging nonhuman primates illuminate the etiology of early-stage
Alzheimer's-like neuropathology: An evolutionary perspective.

Arnsten AFT(1), Datta D(1), Preuss TM(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Yale Medical School, New Haven, Connecticut, USA.
(2)Division of Neuropharmacology and Neurologic Diseases, Department of
Pathology, Yerkes National Primate Research Center, Emory University, Atlanta,
Georgia, USA.

Tau pathology in Alzheimer's disease (AD) preferentially afflicts the limbic and 
recently enlarged association cortices, causing a progression of mnemonic and
cognitive deficits. Although genetic mouse models have helped reveal mechanisms
underlying the rare, autosomal-dominant forms of AD, the etiology of the more
common, sporadic form of AD remains unknown, and is challenging to study in mice 
due to their limited association cortex and lifespan. It is also difficult to
study in human brains, as early-stage tau phosphorylation can degrade postmortem.
In contrast, rhesus monkeys have extensive association cortices, are long-lived, 
and can undergo perfusion fixation to capture early-stage tau phosphorylation in 
situ. Most importantly, rhesus monkeys naturally develop amyloid plaques,
neurofibrillary tangles comprised of hyperphosphorylated tau, synaptic loss, and 
cognitive deficits with advancing age, and thus can be used to identify the early
molecular events that initiate and propel neuropathology in the aging association
cortices. Studies to date suggest that the particular molecular signaling events 
needed for higher cognition-for example, high levels of calcium to maintain
persistent neuronal firing- lead to tau phosphorylation and inflammation when
dysregulated with advancing age. The expression of NMDAR-NR2B (GluN2B)-the
subunit that fluxes high levels of calcium-increases over the cortical hierarchy 
and with the expansion of association cortex in primate evolution, consistent
with patterns of tau pathology. In the rhesus monkey dorsolateral prefrontal
cortex, spines contain NMDAR-NR2B and the molecular machinery to magnify internal
calcium release near the synapse, as well as phosphodiesterases, mGluR3, and
calbindin to regulate calcium signaling. Loss of regulation with inflammation
and/or aging appears to be a key factor in initiating tau pathology. The vast
expansion in the numbers of these synapses over primate evolution is consistent
with the degree of tau pathology seen across species: marmoset < rhesus
monkey < chimpanzee < human, culminating in the vast neurodegeneration seen in
humans with AD.

© 2021 The Authors. American Journal of Primatology Published by Wiley
Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.23254 
PMCID: PMC8550995
PMID: 33960505  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

