

1404. J Neurosci. 2014 May 28;34(22):7663-76. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0718-14.2014.

Orbitofrontal dopamine depletion upregulates caudate dopamine and alters behavior
via changes in reinforcement sensitivity.

Clarke HF(1), Cardinal RN(2), Rygula R(3), Hong YT(4), Fryer TD(4), Sawiak SJ(5),
Ferrari V(4), Cockcroft G(6), Aigbirhio FI(5), Robbins TW(3), Roberts AC(6).

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Physiology, Development and Neuroscience, Behavioral and
Clinical Neuroscience Institute, University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 3EB,
United Kingdom, hfc23@cam.ac.uk.
(2)Behavioral and Clinical Neuroscience Institute, University of Cambridge,
Cambridge CB2 3EB, United Kingdom, Department of Psychiatry and Liaison
Psychiatry Service, Cambridge and Peterborough NHS Foundation Trust, Cambridge
CB2 0QQ, United Kingdom.
(3)Psychology, and Behavioral and Clinical Neuroscience Institute, University of 
Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 3EB, United Kingdom.
(4)Wolfson Brain Imaging Centre, Addenbrooke's Hospital, Cambridge CB2 0QQ,
United Kingdom, and.
(5)Behavioral and Clinical Neuroscience Institute, University of Cambridge,
Cambridge CB2 3EB, United Kingdom, Wolfson Brain Imaging Centre, Addenbrooke's
Hospital, Cambridge CB2 0QQ, United Kingdom, and.
(6)Departments of Physiology, Development and Neuroscience, Behavioral and
Clinical Neuroscience Institute, University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 3EB,
United Kingdom.

Schizophrenia is associated with upregulation of dopamine (DA) release in the
caudate nucleus. The caudate has dense connections with the orbitofrontal cortex 
(OFC) via the frontostriatal loops, and both areas exhibit pathophysiological
change in schizophrenia. Despite evidence that abnormalities in dopaminergic
neurotransmission and prefrontal cortex function co-occur in schizophrenia, the
influence of OFC DA on caudate DA and reinforcement processing is poorly
understood. To test the hypothesis that OFC dopaminergic dysfunction disrupts
caudate dopamine function, we selectively depleted dopamine from the OFC of
marmoset monkeys and measured striatal extracellular dopamine levels (using
microdialysis) and dopamine D2/D3 receptor binding (using positron emission
tomography), while modeling reinforcement-related behavior in a discrimination
learning paradigm. OFC dopamine depletion caused an increase in tonic dopamine
levels in the caudate nucleus and a corresponding reduction in D2/D3 receptor
binding. Computational modeling of behavior showed that the lesion increased
response exploration, reducing the tendency to persist with a recently chosen
response side. This effect is akin to increased response switching previously
seen in schizophrenia and was correlated with striatal but not OFC D2/D3 receptor
binding. These results demonstrate that OFC dopamine depletion is sufficient to
induce striatal hyperdopaminergia and changes in reinforcement learning relevant 
to schizophrenia.

Copyright © 2014 Clarke, Cardinal et al.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0718-14.2014 
PMCID: PMC4035526
PMID: 24872570  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1405. PLoS One. 2014 May 28;9(5):e96845. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0096845. eCollection
2014.

Developmental origins of pregnancy loss in the adult female common marmoset
monkey (Callithrix jacchus).

Rutherford JN(1), deMartelly VA(2), Layne Colon DG(3), Ross CN(4), Tardif SD(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Women, Children, and Family Health, College of Nursing,
University of Illinois at Chicago, Chicago, Illinois, United States of America;
Department of Anthropology, University of Illinois at Chicago, Chicago, Illinois,
United States of America.
(2)Department of Women, Children, and Family Health, College of Nursing,
University of Illinois at Chicago, Chicago, Illinois, United States of America;
Rollins School of Public Health, Emory University, Atlanta, Georgia, United
States of America.
(3)Southwest National Primate Research Center/Texas Biomedical Research
Institute, San Antonio, Texas, United States of America.
(4)Southwest National Primate Research Center/Texas Biomedical Research
Institute, San Antonio, Texas, United States of America; Texas A & M University -
San Antonio, San Antonio, Texas, United States of America; Department of Cellular
and Structural Biology, Barshop Institute for Longevity & Aging Studies,
University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio, San Antonio, Texas,
United States of America.
(5)Department of Cellular and Structural Biology, Barshop Institute for Longevity
& Aging Studies, University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio, San
Antonio, Texas, United States of America.

BACKGROUND: The impact of the intrauterine environment on the developmental
programming of adult female reproductive success is still poorly understood and
potentially underestimated. Litter size variation in a nonhuman primate, the
common marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus), allows us to model the effects of
varying intrauterine environments (e.g. nutrient restriction, exposure to male
womb-mates) on the risk of losing fetuses in adulthood. Our previous work has
characterized the fetuses of triplet pregnancies as experiencing intrauterine
nutritional restriction.
METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: We used over a decade of demographic data from
the Southwest National Primate Research Center common marmoset colony. We
evaluated differences between twin and triplet females in the number of
pregnancies they produce and the proportion of those pregnancies that ended in
fetal loss. We found that triplet females produced the same number of total
offspring as twin females, but lost offspring during pregnancy at a significantly
higher rate than did twins (38% vs. 13%, p = 0.02). Regardless of their own birth
weight or the sex ratio of the litter the experienced as fetuses, triplet females
lost more fetuses than did twins. Females with a male littermate experienced a
significant increase in the proportion of stillbirths.
CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: These striking findings anchor pregnancy loss in the
mother's own fetal environment and development, underscoring a "Womb to Womb"
view of the lifecourse and the intergenerational consequences of development.
This has important translational implications for understanding the large
proportion of human stillbirths that are unexplained. Our findings provide strong
evidence that a full understanding of mammalian life history and reproductive
biology requires a developmental foundation.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0096845 
PMCID: PMC4037172
PMID: 24871614  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

