

1413. Am J Primatol. 2014 Nov;76(11):1062-73. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22293. Epub 2014 May 8.

Long-term data on reproductive output and longevity in captive female common
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Ash H(1), Buchanan-Smith HM.

Author information: 
(1)Behaviour and Evolution Research Group and Scottish Primate Research Group,
Psychology, School of Natural Sciences, University of Stirling, Stirling,
Scotland.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is widely used in biomedical research,
with many housed for breeding purposes world-wide. Significant variation in
reproductive output among females has been found compared to other anthropoid
primates. The present study explores this reproductive variation, focusing on
potential predictors of dam longevity and litter size, as well as changes over
time. Back-record analysis was conducted, yielding litter information and
reproductive summaries of 360 dams housed at three UK marmoset colonies over four
decades (1970s-2000s). Results revealed differences among the colonies, as well
as within colonies over decades, suggesting environment may play an important
role. Cox proportional hazards regression analyses revealed significant effects
of mean litter size and yearly production on dam longevity. Decade, mean
inter-birth interval and mean dam weight were found to be significant factors
explaining dam longevity when looking at colonies individually. The most commonly
recorded cause of death was "poor condition." Linear regression models found that
no reproductive variable was useful in explaining mean litter size, except dam
weight at conception, data which was only consistently recorded at one colony.
While triplets were common at all three colonies, these larger litters were
consistently associated with higher infant mortality, despite human intervention 
to improve survival. This study increases our understanding of marmoset
reproduction, and possible improvements to practical aspects of colony management
to enhance survival and welfare are discussed.

© 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22293 
PMID: 24809989  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1414. Front Behav Neurosci. 2014 Apr 24;8:137. doi: 10.3389/fnbeh.2014.00137.
eCollection 2014.

Individual differences in behavioral and cardiovascular reactivity to emotive
stimuli and their relationship to cognitive flexibility in a primate model of
trait anxiety.

Shiba Y(1), Santangelo AM(1), Braesicke K(1), Agustín-Pavón C(1), Cockcroft G(2),
Haggard M(3), Roberts AC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Development and Neuroscience, University of
Cambridge Cambridge, UK ; Behavioural and Clinical Neuroscience Institute,
University of Cambridge Cambridge, UK.
(2)Behavioural and Clinical Neuroscience Institute, University of Cambridge
Cambridge, UK ; Department of Psychology, University of Cambridge Cambridge, UK.
(3)Department of Psychology, University of Cambridge Cambridge, UK.

High trait anxiety is a risk factor for the development of anxiety disorders.
Like the disorders themselves high trait anxiety has marked phenotypic variation 
at the level of symptomatology and neural circuits, suggesting that there may be 
different symptoms and distinct neural circuits associated with risk for these
disorders. To address these issues, it is essential to develop reliable animal
models of trait anxiety in a non-human primate whose brain bears structural and
functional similarity to humans. The present study investigated individual
variation in responsivity to fearful and anxiety provoking stimuli in the common 
marmoset monkey. Seven out of 27 animals failed to display discriminative,
conditioned cardiovascular and behavioral responses on an auditory fear
discrimination task, similar to that seen in high anxious humans and rodents.
Their heightened emotionality to a rubber snake was consistent with the
hypothesis that they were high in trait-like anxiety. Evidence for phenotypic
variation in the high anxiety group was provided by the finding that
discrimination failure was predicted early in conditioning by either
hyper-vigilant scanning to the cues or a reduction in blood pressure to the
context, i.e., test apparatus. Given that high trait anxiety in humans can be
associated with altered prefrontal cognitive functioning and previously we
implicated the marmoset anterior orbitofrontal (antOFC) and ventrolateral
prefrontal cortex (vlPFC) in negative emotion regulation, we also tested the
marmosets on two tests of cognitive flexibility differentially dependent on these
two regions. While the high anxious group did not differ overall in their
perseverative performance, the two distinct phenotypes were differentially
correlated with reduced perseverative responding on the OFC- and vlPFC-dependent 
flexibility tests. Together, this study provides a new model of trait anxiety in 
marmosets amenable to analysis of phenotypic variation and neural circuitry.

DOI: 10.3389/fnbeh.2014.00137 
PMCID: PMC4006051
PMID: 24795587 

