

1428. Mol Brain. 2014 Apr 3;7:24. doi: 10.1186/1756-6606-7-24.

Reprogramming non-human primate somatic cells into functional neuronal cells by
defined factors.

Zhou Z, Kohda K, Ibata K, Kohyama J, Akamatsu W, Yuzaki M, Okano HJ, Sasaki E,
Okano H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, 35 Shinanomachi,
Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo 160-8582, Japan. hidokano@a2.keio.jp.

BACKGROUND: The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is a New World primate
sharing many similarities with humans. Recently developed technology for
generating transgenic marmosets has opened new avenues for faithful
recapitulation of human diseases, which could not be achieved in rodent models.
However, the longer lifespan of common marmosets compared with rodents may result
in an extended period for in vivo analysis of common marmoset disease models.
Therefore, establishing rapid and efficient techniques for obtaining neuronal
cells from transgenic individuals that enable in vitro analysis of molecular
mechanisms underlying diseases are required. Recently, several groups have
reported on methods, termed direct reprogramming, to generate neuronal cells by
defined factors from somatic cells of various kinds of species, including mouse
and human. The aim of the present study was to determine whether direct
reprogramming technology was applicable to common marmosets.
RESULTS: Common marmoset induced neuronal (cjiN) cells with neuronal morphology
were generated from common marmoset embryonic skin fibroblasts (cjF) by
overexpressing the neuronal transcription factors: ASCL1, BRN2, MYT1L and
NEUROD1. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction of cjiN cells showed
upregulation of neuronal genes highly related to neuronal differentiation and
function. The presence of neuronal marker proteins was also confirmed by
immunocytochemistry. Electrical field stimulation to cjiN cells increased the
intracellular calcium level, which was reversibly blocked by the voltage-gated
sodium channel blocker, tetrodotoxin, indicating that these cells were
functional. The neuronal function of these cells was further confirmed by
electrophysiological analyses showing that action potentials could be elicited by
membrane depolarization in current-clamp mode while both fast-activating and
inactivating sodium currents and outward currents were observed in voltage-clamp 
mode. The 5-bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) incorporation assay showed that cjiN cells
were directly converted from cjFs without passing a proliferative state.
CONCLUSIONS: Functional common marmoset neuronal cells can be obtained directly
from embryonic fibroblasts by overexpressing four neuronal transcription factors 
under in vitro conditions. Overall, direct conversion technology on marmoset
somatic cells provides the opportunity to analyze and screen phenotypes of
genetically-modified common marmosets.

DOI: 10.1186/1756-6606-7-24 
PMCID: PMC4021617
PMID: 24694048  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1429. J Pharmacol Sci. 2014;124(4):480-5. Epub 2014 Mar 28.

Adenosine A₂A-receptor antagonist istradefylline enhances the motor response of
L-DOPA without worsening dyskinesia in MPTP-treated common marmosets.

Uchida S(1), Tashiro T, Kawai-Uchida M, Mori A, Jenner P, Kanda T.

Author information: 
(1)Development Research Laboratories, Research Division, Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co.,
Ltd., Japan.

The adenosine A₂A-receptor antagonist istradefylline decreases OFF time in
patients with Parkinson's disease who are already treated with optimal doses of
dopaminergic medication but can cause an increase in non-troublesome dyskinesia. 
Preclinical experiments have shown that A₂A antagonists are most effective in
potentiating motor function when combined with sub-maximal doses of L-DOPA.
However, the effects of combining istradefylline with sub-optimal L-DOPA
treatment on established dyskinesia have not been studied. We now examine the
effects of acute and repeated administration of istradefylline on dyskinesia in
MPTP-treated common marmosets previously primed to exhibit involuntary movements 
by prior exposure to L-DOPA. In these animals, single dose acute oral
administration of istradefylline (10 mg/kg) enhanced and prolonged the
anti-parkinsonian effects of a sub-optimal dose of L-DOPA (2.5 mg/kg). The
chronic co-administration of istradefylline (10 mg/kg) with L-DOPA (2.5 mg/kg)
for 21 days did not worsen the severity of existing dyskinesia. Rather, the
severity of dyskinesia tended to be reduced over the 21-day treatment period.
These results suggest that istradefylline can be used to potentiate the effects
of sub-optimal doses of L-DOPA in the treatment of Parkinson's disease without
causing or worsening dyskinesia.

DOI: 10.1254/jphs.13250fp 
PMID: 24681641  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

