

1429. J Pharmacol Sci. 2014;124(4):480-5. Epub 2014 Mar 28.

Adenosine A₂A-receptor antagonist istradefylline enhances the motor response of
L-DOPA without worsening dyskinesia in MPTP-treated common marmosets.

Uchida S(1), Tashiro T, Kawai-Uchida M, Mori A, Jenner P, Kanda T.

Author information: 
(1)Development Research Laboratories, Research Division, Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co.,
Ltd., Japan.

The adenosine A₂A-receptor antagonist istradefylline decreases OFF time in
patients with Parkinson's disease who are already treated with optimal doses of
dopaminergic medication but can cause an increase in non-troublesome dyskinesia. 
Preclinical experiments have shown that A₂A antagonists are most effective in
potentiating motor function when combined with sub-maximal doses of L-DOPA.
However, the effects of combining istradefylline with sub-optimal L-DOPA
treatment on established dyskinesia have not been studied. We now examine the
effects of acute and repeated administration of istradefylline on dyskinesia in
MPTP-treated common marmosets previously primed to exhibit involuntary movements 
by prior exposure to L-DOPA. In these animals, single dose acute oral
administration of istradefylline (10 mg/kg) enhanced and prolonged the
anti-parkinsonian effects of a sub-optimal dose of L-DOPA (2.5 mg/kg). The
chronic co-administration of istradefylline (10 mg/kg) with L-DOPA (2.5 mg/kg)
for 21 days did not worsen the severity of existing dyskinesia. Rather, the
severity of dyskinesia tended to be reduced over the 21-day treatment period.
These results suggest that istradefylline can be used to potentiate the effects
of sub-optimal doses of L-DOPA in the treatment of Parkinson's disease without
causing or worsening dyskinesia.

DOI: 10.1254/jphs.13250fp 
PMID: 24681641  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1430. J Med Primatol. 2014 Aug;43(4):225-30. doi: 10.1111/jmp.12111. Epub 2014 Mar 27.

Semen characteristics of captive common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus): a
comparison of a German with a Brazilian colony.

Valle Rdel R(1), Valle CM, Nichi M, Muniz JA, Nayudu PL, Guimarães MA.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Health Sciences, Paulista University, São Paulo, Brazil; Applied 
Research Division, São Paulo Zoological Park Foundation, São Paulo, Brazil;
Wildlife Management Consultoria Veterinária, São Paulo, Brazil.

BACKGROUND: The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is of interest for
reproductive studies because of their high and variable fertility in captivity.
However, to understand this variability, much basic information still needs to be
gathered. This study is the first to characterize marmoset semen comparing a
German and a Brazilian colony.
METHODS: All animals were weighted, and semen samples were collected by penile
vibratory stimulation and analyzed according to standard criteria.
RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS: The German animals had a higher mean and maximum weight 
than the Brazilian. Further, sperm concentration tended to be higher with heavier
animals in the German population, but not in the Brazilian. Additionally, major
defects tended to be more frequent with higher weight but also only in German
sample. In spite of these differences, the total range and variability in sperm
concentration were similar in both populations, suggesting that this is
characteristic for the species.

© 2014 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jmp.12111 
PMID: 24673563  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

