

1448. Am J Primatol. 2014 Mar;76(3):239-48. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22228. Epub 2013 Oct 29.

Behavioral responses to social separation stressor change across development and 
are dynamically related to HPA activity in marmosets.

Taylor JH(1), Mustoe AC, French JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska-Omaha, Omaha, Nebraska;
Callitrichid Research Center, Department of Psychology, Omaha, Nebraska.

Psychosocial stressors activate two distinct stress-response systems, a central, 
behavioral response, and a peripheral, endocrine response. Both behavioral and
endocrine responses to stressors are subject to individual and developmental
variables, but it is not known whether stressor induced behaviors are stable
across development, and how they correspond with changes in the endocrine
component of the stress response. We characterized the development and stability 
of behavioral responses to a mild psychosocial stressor in marmosets (Callithrix 
geoffroyi), and assessed the degree to which the behavioral and endocrine
stress-response systems were co-activated. The behavioral response to stressors
was stable within individuals, but only some stressor-induced behaviors changed
as the monkeys developed. Overall, there was more variability in the development 
of behavioral responses compared to stress-induced endocrine profiles found
previously [French et al., 2012. Horm Behav 61:196-203]. In young marmosets, only
increased alarm calling was correlated with increased cortisol reactivity, and in
older marmosets increased cage manipulations and motor activity were associated
with poorer post-stressor cortisol regulation. Because these relationships were
so few, we conclude that while the behavioral and endocrine systems follow a
similar developmental trajectory, each system maintains a level of independence. 
Furthermore, the relationship between stressor-induced behaviors and HPA activity
changes across development.

© 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22228 
PMCID: PMC5375030
PMID: 24532179  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1449. Osteoporos Int. 2014 Apr;25(4):1255-66. doi: 10.1007/s00198-013-2566-4. Epub 2014
Feb 15.

Osteogenic induction from marmoset embryonic stem cells cultured in
feeder-dependent and feeder-independent conditions.

Trettner S(1), Findeisen A, Taube S, Horn PA, Sasaki E, zur Nieden NI.

Author information: 
(1)Group Applied Stem Cell Technology, Fraunhofer Institute for Cell Therapy and 
Immunology, Leipzig, Germany.

Embryonic stem cells (ESCs) have become increasingly attractive for cell
replacement therapies of osteodegenerative diseases; however, pre-clinical
studies in large animal models to repair diseased or injured bone are lacking. As
a first step into this direction, we describe here the feeder-free cultivation
and directed osteogenic differentiation of marmoset ESCs.INTRODUCTION: Owing to
their potential to self-renew and their enormous differentiation capability, ESCs
are an adequate cell source for cell replacement therapies. To implement stem
cell technology clinically, standardized cultivation and differentiation
protocols and appropriate animal models are needed. Here, we describe the
feeder-free cultivation of Callithrix jacchus ESCs (cESCs) in a chemically
defined medium and their subsequent osteogenic differentiation.
METHODS: cESCs were maintained on mouse embryonic fibroblast feeder layers or in 
feeder-free conditions with activin A and basic fibroblast growth factor.
Differentiation into mature osteoblasts was steered with ascorbic acid,
β-glycerophosphate and 1α,25-(OH)2 vitamin D3 employing various induction
strategies.
RESULTS: In feeder-free conditions, cESCs maintained pluripotency as indicated by
Oct-4 and Nanog expression, positive immunostaining for typical primate ESC
markers and high telomerase activity. Cells also remained karyotypically normal
after 40 passages without feeder cells. The hanging drop protocol as well as
omitting the embryoid body step proved unsuccessful to initiate osteogenic
differentiation. The highest degree of osteogenesis was achieved by formation of 
embryoid bodies employing the cell cluster technique as indicated by the amount
of deposited calcium and bone marker gene expression. Early addition of retinoic 
acid further improved the yield of osteoblasts and led to an increase in calcium 
deposition.
CONCLUSIONS: The osteogenic differentiation potential of feeder-free cESCs was
equal if not higher compared to cells grown on feeders. These findings open the
field for near clinical transplantation studies in primate models to evaluate the
effectiveness of ESC-derived osteoblasts.

DOI: 10.1007/s00198-013-2566-4 
PMID: 24531422  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

