

1469. Eur J Neurosci. 2014 Mar;39(6):919-933. doi: 10.1111/ejn.12460. Epub 2013 Dec 26.

Spatially extended forward suppression in primate auditory cortex.

Zhou Y(1), Wang X(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University, School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, 21205, USA.

When auditory neurons are stimulated with a pair of sounds, the preceding sound
can inhibit the neural responses to the succeeding sound. This phenomenon,
referred to as 'forward suppression', has been linked to perceptual forward
masking. Previous studies investigating forward suppression typically measured
the interaction between masker and probe sounds using a fixed sound location.
However, in natural environments, interacting sounds often come from different
spatial locations. The present study investigated two questions regarding forward
suppression in the primary auditory cortex and adjacent caudal field of awake
marmoset monkeys. First, what is the relationship between the location of a
masker and its effectiveness in inhibiting neural response to a probe? Second,
does varying the location of a masker change the spectral profile of forward
suppression? We found that a masker can inhibit a neuron's response to a probe
located at a preferred location even when the masker is located at a
non-preferred location of a neuron. This is especially so for neurons in the
caudal field. Furthermore, we found that the strongest forward suppression is
observed when a masker's frequency is close to the best frequency of a neuron,
regardless of the location of the masker. These results reveal, for the first
time, the stability of forward masking in cortical processing of multiple sounds 
presented from different locations. They suggest that forward suppression in the 
auditory cortex is spectrally specific and spatially broad with respect to the
frequency and location of the masker, respectively.

© 2013 Federation of European Neuroscience Societies and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/ejn.12460 
PMID: 24372934  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1470. Immunol Lett. 2014 Mar-Apr;158(1-2):126-33. doi: 10.1016/j.imlet.2013.12.008.
Epub 2013 Dec 17.

Callithrix penicillata: a feasible experimental model for dengue virus infection.

Ferreira MS(1), de Castro PH(2), Silva GA(3), Casseb SM(4), Dias Júnior AG(5),
Rodrigues SG(6), Azevedo Rdo S(7), Costa e Silva MF(8), Zauli DA(9), Araújo
MS(10), Béla SR(11), Teixeira-Carvalho A(12), Martins-Filho OA(13), Vasconcelos
PF(14).

Author information: 
(1)Instituto Evandro Chagas/SVS/MS, Ananindeua, Pará, Brazil; Núcleo de Medicina 
Tropical Universidade Federal do Pará, Belém, Pará, Brazil. Electronic address:
mileneferreira@iec.pa.gov.br.
(2)Centro Nacional de Primatas, Ananindeua, Pará, Brazil. Electronic address:
paulo.castro@cenp.org.br.
(3)Centro Nacional de Primatas, Ananindeua, Pará, Brazil. Electronic address:
gilmara.silva@cenp.org.br.
(4)Instituto Evandro Chagas/SVS/MS, Ananindeua, Pará, Brazil. Electronic address:
samircasseb@iec.pa.gov.br.
(5)Instituto Evandro Chagas/SVS/MS, Ananindeua, Pará, Brazil. Electronic address:
antoniodias@iec.pa.gov.br.
(6)Instituto Evandro Chagas/SVS/MS, Ananindeua, Pará, Brazil. Electronic address:
suelirodrigues@iec.pa.gov.br.
(7)Instituto Evandro Chagas/SVS/MS, Ananindeua, Pará, Brazil. Electronic address:
raimundaazevedo@iec.pa.gov.br.
(8)Laboratório de Biomarcadores de Diagnóstico e Monitoração, Centro de Pesquisas
René Rachou, Fundação Oswaldo Cruz-FIOCRUZ, Belo Horizonte, Brazil. Electronic
address: mfernandes@cpqrr.fiocruz.br.
(9)Laboratório de Biomarcadores de Diagnóstico e Monitoração, Centro de Pesquisas
René Rachou, Fundação Oswaldo Cruz-FIOCRUZ, Belo Horizonte, Brazil. Electronic
address: daniellezauli@yahoo.com.br.
(10)Laboratório de Biomarcadores de Diagnóstico e Monitoração, Centro de
Pesquisas René Rachou, Fundação Oswaldo Cruz-FIOCRUZ, Belo Horizonte, Brazil.
Electronic address: sobreira@cpqrr.fiocruz.br.
(11)Laboratório de Biomarcadores de Diagnóstico e Monitoração, Centro de
Pesquisas René Rachou, Fundação Oswaldo Cruz-FIOCRUZ, Belo Horizonte, Brazil.
Electronic address: samantha@cpqrr.fiocruz.br.
(12)Laboratório de Biomarcadores de Diagnóstico e Monitoração, Centro de
Pesquisas René Rachou, Fundação Oswaldo Cruz-FIOCRUZ, Belo Horizonte, Brazil.
Electronic address: andreat@cpqrr.fiocruz.br.
(13)Laboratório de Biomarcadores de Diagnóstico e Monitoração, Centro de
Pesquisas René Rachou, Fundação Oswaldo Cruz-FIOCRUZ, Belo Horizonte, Brazil.
Electronic address: daniellezauli@cpqrr.fiocruz.br.
(14)Instituto Evandro Chagas/SVS/MS, Ananindeua, Pará, Brazil; Universidade do
Estado do Pará, Belém, Pará, Brazil. Electronic address:
pedrovasconcelos@iec.pa.gov.br.

Although the murine models have the feasibility to reproduce some signs of dengue
Virus (DENV) infection, the use of isogenic hosts with polarized immune response 
patterns does not reproduce the particularities of human disease. Our goal was to
investigate the kinetics of peripheral blood biomarkers in immunocompetent
Callithrix penicillata non-human primates subcutaneously infected with DENV-3.
The viral load of infected animals was determinated by quantitative real time
PCR. Measurements of DENV-3/IgM were performed, and several parameters were
assessed by hemogram: red blood cells count, hemoglobin, hematocrit, white blood 
cells count, neutrophils, monocytes, lymphocytes, and platelets count. The
coagulogram was performed by prothrombin time (PT), and activated partial
thromboplastin time (APTT) assays. The renal function was monitored by urea and
creatinine, and the liver function by the aspartate (AST), and alanine (ALT)
aminotransferases. Also, the level of the cytokines IL-6, TNF-α, IL-2, IFN-γ,
IL-4 and IL-5 was quantified during the experimental study. Data analysis was
performed considering relevant differences when baseline fold changes were found 
outside from 0.75 to 1.5 range. Our data demonstrated that infected animals
presented relevant signs of dengue disease, including peaks of viremia at 5
days-post-infection (dpi), peaks of anti-DENV-3 IgM at 15 dpi and hemaglutination
inhibition assay (HIA) from 15 to at 60 dpi. Despite early monocytosis, slight
neutrophilia and lymphocytosis, animals developed persistent leucopenia starting 
at 4 dpi. Anemia episodes were steady at 3-4 dpi. Patent thrombocytopenia was
observed from 1 to 15 dpi with sporadic decrease of APTT. A substantial increase 
of ALT and AST was observed with higher peak at 4 dpi. Moreover, early increases 
of TNF-alpha and IFN-gamma besides late increase of IFN-gamma were observed. The 
analysis of biomarkers network pointed out two relevant strong axes during early 
stages of dengue fever, a protective axes TNF-alpha/Lymphocytes/Platelets, and a 
pathological IL-2/IL-6/Viremia/Monocyte/PT bond. Later on, the biomarker network 
highlighted the interaction IFN-gamma/PLT/DENV-3(IgM;HAI)/PT, and the involvement
of type-2 cytokines (IL-4; IL-5). Our findings demonstrated that C. penicillata
is a feasible experimental model for dengue virus infection, which could be
useful to pathogenesis studies, discovery of novel antiviral drugs as well as to 
evaluate vaccine candidates against DENV.

Copyright © 2014. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.imlet.2013.12.008 
PMID: 24361035  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

