

1470. Immunol Lett. 2014 Mar-Apr;158(1-2):126-33. doi: 10.1016/j.imlet.2013.12.008.
Epub 2013 Dec 17.

Callithrix penicillata: a feasible experimental model for dengue virus infection.

Ferreira MS(1), de Castro PH(2), Silva GA(3), Casseb SM(4), Dias Júnior AG(5),
Rodrigues SG(6), Azevedo Rdo S(7), Costa e Silva MF(8), Zauli DA(9), Araújo
MS(10), Béla SR(11), Teixeira-Carvalho A(12), Martins-Filho OA(13), Vasconcelos
PF(14).

Author information: 
(1)Instituto Evandro Chagas/SVS/MS, Ananindeua, Pará, Brazil; Núcleo de Medicina 
Tropical Universidade Federal do Pará, Belém, Pará, Brazil. Electronic address:
mileneferreira@iec.pa.gov.br.
(2)Centro Nacional de Primatas, Ananindeua, Pará, Brazil. Electronic address:
paulo.castro@cenp.org.br.
(3)Centro Nacional de Primatas, Ananindeua, Pará, Brazil. Electronic address:
gilmara.silva@cenp.org.br.
(4)Instituto Evandro Chagas/SVS/MS, Ananindeua, Pará, Brazil. Electronic address:
samircasseb@iec.pa.gov.br.
(5)Instituto Evandro Chagas/SVS/MS, Ananindeua, Pará, Brazil. Electronic address:
antoniodias@iec.pa.gov.br.
(6)Instituto Evandro Chagas/SVS/MS, Ananindeua, Pará, Brazil. Electronic address:
suelirodrigues@iec.pa.gov.br.
(7)Instituto Evandro Chagas/SVS/MS, Ananindeua, Pará, Brazil. Electronic address:
raimundaazevedo@iec.pa.gov.br.
(8)Laboratório de Biomarcadores de Diagnóstico e Monitoração, Centro de Pesquisas
René Rachou, Fundação Oswaldo Cruz-FIOCRUZ, Belo Horizonte, Brazil. Electronic
address: mfernandes@cpqrr.fiocruz.br.
(9)Laboratório de Biomarcadores de Diagnóstico e Monitoração, Centro de Pesquisas
René Rachou, Fundação Oswaldo Cruz-FIOCRUZ, Belo Horizonte, Brazil. Electronic
address: daniellezauli@yahoo.com.br.
(10)Laboratório de Biomarcadores de Diagnóstico e Monitoração, Centro de
Pesquisas René Rachou, Fundação Oswaldo Cruz-FIOCRUZ, Belo Horizonte, Brazil.
Electronic address: sobreira@cpqrr.fiocruz.br.
(11)Laboratório de Biomarcadores de Diagnóstico e Monitoração, Centro de
Pesquisas René Rachou, Fundação Oswaldo Cruz-FIOCRUZ, Belo Horizonte, Brazil.
Electronic address: samantha@cpqrr.fiocruz.br.
(12)Laboratório de Biomarcadores de Diagnóstico e Monitoração, Centro de
Pesquisas René Rachou, Fundação Oswaldo Cruz-FIOCRUZ, Belo Horizonte, Brazil.
Electronic address: andreat@cpqrr.fiocruz.br.
(13)Laboratório de Biomarcadores de Diagnóstico e Monitoração, Centro de
Pesquisas René Rachou, Fundação Oswaldo Cruz-FIOCRUZ, Belo Horizonte, Brazil.
Electronic address: daniellezauli@cpqrr.fiocruz.br.
(14)Instituto Evandro Chagas/SVS/MS, Ananindeua, Pará, Brazil; Universidade do
Estado do Pará, Belém, Pará, Brazil. Electronic address:
pedrovasconcelos@iec.pa.gov.br.

Although the murine models have the feasibility to reproduce some signs of dengue
Virus (DENV) infection, the use of isogenic hosts with polarized immune response 
patterns does not reproduce the particularities of human disease. Our goal was to
investigate the kinetics of peripheral blood biomarkers in immunocompetent
Callithrix penicillata non-human primates subcutaneously infected with DENV-3.
The viral load of infected animals was determinated by quantitative real time
PCR. Measurements of DENV-3/IgM were performed, and several parameters were
assessed by hemogram: red blood cells count, hemoglobin, hematocrit, white blood 
cells count, neutrophils, monocytes, lymphocytes, and platelets count. The
coagulogram was performed by prothrombin time (PT), and activated partial
thromboplastin time (APTT) assays. The renal function was monitored by urea and
creatinine, and the liver function by the aspartate (AST), and alanine (ALT)
aminotransferases. Also, the level of the cytokines IL-6, TNF-α, IL-2, IFN-γ,
IL-4 and IL-5 was quantified during the experimental study. Data analysis was
performed considering relevant differences when baseline fold changes were found 
outside from 0.75 to 1.5 range. Our data demonstrated that infected animals
presented relevant signs of dengue disease, including peaks of viremia at 5
days-post-infection (dpi), peaks of anti-DENV-3 IgM at 15 dpi and hemaglutination
inhibition assay (HIA) from 15 to at 60 dpi. Despite early monocytosis, slight
neutrophilia and lymphocytosis, animals developed persistent leucopenia starting 
at 4 dpi. Anemia episodes were steady at 3-4 dpi. Patent thrombocytopenia was
observed from 1 to 15 dpi with sporadic decrease of APTT. A substantial increase 
of ALT and AST was observed with higher peak at 4 dpi. Moreover, early increases 
of TNF-alpha and IFN-gamma besides late increase of IFN-gamma were observed. The 
analysis of biomarkers network pointed out two relevant strong axes during early 
stages of dengue fever, a protective axes TNF-alpha/Lymphocytes/Platelets, and a 
pathological IL-2/IL-6/Viremia/Monocyte/PT bond. Later on, the biomarker network 
highlighted the interaction IFN-gamma/PLT/DENV-3(IgM;HAI)/PT, and the involvement
of type-2 cytokines (IL-4; IL-5). Our findings demonstrated that C. penicillata
is a feasible experimental model for dengue virus infection, which could be
useful to pathogenesis studies, discovery of novel antiviral drugs as well as to 
evaluate vaccine candidates against DENV.

Copyright © 2014. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.imlet.2013.12.008 
PMID: 24361035  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1471. J Am Assoc Lab Anim Sci. 2013 Nov;52(6):756-62.

Using snacks high in fat and protein to improve glucoregulatory function in
adolescent male marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Ziegler TE(1), Sosa ME(2), Peterson LJ(3), Colman RJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin, Madison, 
Wisconsin, USA. ziegler@primate.wisc.edu.
(2)Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin, Madison, 
Wisconsin, USA.
(3)Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, Department of Psychology,
University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wisconsin, USA.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a laboratory nonhuman primate, is a
well-known model of several human diseases and conditions, but the nutritional
needs of these animals are not fully understood. Here we describe a 4-mo
controlled study in which we increased the dietary fat and protein of subadult
male common marmosets by using healthy snacks. Six male marmosets received their 
normal diet (control), and an additional 6 were given their normal diet
supplemented daily with a 14-kcal snack. Cashews and waxworms were used as the
snack, given their high-fat content. Although body weight did not differ between 
the 2 groups, only control male marmosets showed increased chest circumferences
over the course of the study. Glucoregulatory function remained consistent in the
snack-fed marmosets, whereas control animals had progressed toward higher
insulin. Other indices of glucoregulation indicated significant differences in
adiponectin and the cortisol:cortisone ratio between the 2 groups, but no
differences in lipid concentration were detected. Therefore, the most notable
difference attributable to the snack feeding was improved glucoregulation.
Because the snacks we used had a high proportion of unsaturated compared with
saturated fat, we suggest that these healthy high-fat-high-protein snacks provide
an important contribution to the nutrition of this laboratory species. This study
also demonstrates the utility of marmosets as a model for understanding the
implications of dietary fats in humans.


PMCID: PMC3838610
PMID: 24351764  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

