

1471. J Am Assoc Lab Anim Sci. 2013 Nov;52(6):756-62.

Using snacks high in fat and protein to improve glucoregulatory function in
adolescent male marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Ziegler TE(1), Sosa ME(2), Peterson LJ(3), Colman RJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin, Madison, 
Wisconsin, USA. ziegler@primate.wisc.edu.
(2)Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin, Madison, 
Wisconsin, USA.
(3)Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, Department of Psychology,
University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wisconsin, USA.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a laboratory nonhuman primate, is a
well-known model of several human diseases and conditions, but the nutritional
needs of these animals are not fully understood. Here we describe a 4-mo
controlled study in which we increased the dietary fat and protein of subadult
male common marmosets by using healthy snacks. Six male marmosets received their 
normal diet (control), and an additional 6 were given their normal diet
supplemented daily with a 14-kcal snack. Cashews and waxworms were used as the
snack, given their high-fat content. Although body weight did not differ between 
the 2 groups, only control male marmosets showed increased chest circumferences
over the course of the study. Glucoregulatory function remained consistent in the
snack-fed marmosets, whereas control animals had progressed toward higher
insulin. Other indices of glucoregulation indicated significant differences in
adiponectin and the cortisol:cortisone ratio between the 2 groups, but no
differences in lipid concentration were detected. Therefore, the most notable
difference attributable to the snack feeding was improved glucoregulation.
Because the snacks we used had a high proportion of unsaturated compared with
saturated fat, we suggest that these healthy high-fat-high-protein snacks provide
an important contribution to the nutrition of this laboratory species. This study
also demonstrates the utility of marmosets as a model for understanding the
implications of dietary fats in humans.


PMCID: PMC3838610
PMID: 24351764  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1472. J Virol. 2014 Feb;88(4):2235-45. doi: 10.1128/JVI.02341-13. Epub 2013 Dec 11.

Aerosolized rift valley fever virus causes fatal encephalitis in african green
monkeys and common marmosets.

Hartman AL(1), Powell DS, Bethel LM, Caroline AL, Schmid RJ, Oury T, Reed DS.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Vaccine Research, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania, USA.

Rift Valley fever (RVF) is a veterinary and human disease in Africa and the
Middle East. The causative agent, RVF virus (RVFV), can be naturally transmitted 
by mosquito, direct contact, or aerosol. We sought to develop a nonhuman primate 
(NHP) model of severe RVF in humans to better understand the pathogenesis of RVF 
and to use for evaluation of medical countermeasures. NHP from four different
species were exposed to aerosols containing RVFV. Both cynomolgus and rhesus
macaques developed mild fevers after inhalation of RVFV, but no other clinical
signs were noted and no macaque succumbed to RVFV infection. In contrast, both
marmosets and African green monkeys (AGM) proved susceptible to aerosolized RVF
virus. Fever onset was earlier with the marmosets and had a biphasic pattern
similar to what has been reported in humans. Beginning around day 8 to day 10
postexposure, clinical signs consistent with encephalitis were noted in both AGM 
and marmosets; animals of both species succumbed between days 9 and 11
postexposure. Marmosets were susceptible to lower doses of RVFV than AGM.
Histological examination confirmed viral meningoencephalitis in both species.
Hematological analyses indicated a drop in platelet counts in both AGM and
marmosets suggestive of thrombosis, as well as leukocytosis that consisted mostly
of granulocytes. Both AGM and marmosets would serve as useful models of aerosol
infection with RVFV.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.02341-13 
PMCID: PMC3911574
PMID: 24335307  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

