

1475. J Gen Virol. 2014 Mar;95(Pt 3):591-600. doi: 10.1099/vir.0.060384-0. Epub 2013
Dec 9.

Demonstration of marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) as a non-human primate model for 
secondary dengue virus infection: high levels of viraemia and serotype
cross-reactive antibody responses consistent with secondary infection of humans.

Moi ML(1), Takasaki T(1), Omatsu T(2), Nakamura S(3), Katakai Y(4), Ami Y(5),
Suzaki Y(5), Saijo M(1), Akari H(6), Kurane I(7).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Virology I, National Institute of Infectious Diseases, Tokyo,
Japan.
(2)Research and Education Center for Prevention of Global Infectious Diseases of 
Animals, Tokyo University of Agriculture and Technology, Fuchu, Tokyo, Japan.
(3)Research Center for Animal Life Science, Shiga University of Medical Science, 
Otsu, Shiga, Japan.
(4)Laboratory of Disease Control, Tsukuba Primate Research Center, National
Institute of Biomedical Innovation, Ibaraki, Japan.
(5)Division of Experimental Animal Research, National Institute of Infectious
Diseases, Tokyo, Japan.
(6)Section of Comparative Immunology and Microbiology, Center for Human Evolution
Modeling Research Institute, Kyoto University, Inuyama, Aichi, Japan.
(7)National Institute of Infectious Diseases, Tokyo, Japan.

There are four dengue virus (DENV) serotypes. Primary infection with one does not
confer protective immunity against the others. We have reported previously that
the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is a useful primary DENV infection model. It
has been reported that secondary DENV infection with a heterotypic serotype
induces viraemia kinetics and antibody responses that differ from those in
primary infection. Thus, it is important to determine the utility of the marmoset
as a model for secondary DENV infection. Marmosets were infected with
heterologous DENV by secondary inoculation, and viraemia kinetics and antibody
responses were analysed. The marmosets consistently developed high levels of
viraemia after the secondary inoculation with heterologous DENV serotypes. IgM
responses were lower compared with primary inoculation responses, whilst IgG
responses were rapid and high. Neutralizing activities, which possessed serotype 
cross-reactive activities, were detected as early as 4 days after inoculation. In
addition, infectious viraemia titres were higher when assayed with Fcγ
receptor-expressing baby hamster kidney (BHK) cells than when assayed with
conventional BHK cells, suggesting the presence of infectious virus-antibody
immune complexes. After secondary infection with heterotypic DENV, the marmosets 
demonstrated viraemia kinetics, IgM and IgG responses, and high levels of
serotype cross-reactive neutralizing antibody responses, all of which were
consistent with secondary DENV infection in humans. The results indicate the
marmoset as a useful animal for studying secondary, as well as primary, DENV
infection.

DOI: 10.1099/vir.0.060384-0 
PMID: 24323638  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1476. Am J Primatol. 2014 Apr;76(4):385-92. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22242. Epub 2013 Dec 3.

Seasonal variation in the length of the daily activity period in buffy-headed
marmosets (Callithrix flaviceps): an important consideration for the analysis of 
foraging strategies in observational field studies of primates.

Ferrari SF(1), Hilário RR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology, Federal University of Sergipe, São Cristóvão, Brazil;
Graduate Program in Zoology, Federal University of Paraíba, João Pessoa, Brazil.

Activity budgets are widely used in primate behavioral studies for the analysis
of ecological strategies. In some cases, there is considerable seasonal variation
in the length of the daily activity period. Here, activity budgets from two field
studies of Callithrix flaviceps were compiled first by the traditional approach
(proportion of scan sample records) and then by considering the proportion of
time dedicated to each activity over the 24-hr cycle (adjusted budget). Both
groups were almost invariably active for at least 1-2 hr less than the daylight
period, with significantly shorter activity periods during the austral winter,
when the daylight period was up to 2:35 hr shorter than in the summer. The
adjustment of activity budgets provided a completely different perspective on
foraging strategies. Whereas the basic budgets indicated a significant increase
in foraging and moving during the resource-poor dry season (winter) months, the
time-adjusted data revealed that the primary strategy was a time-minimizing one, 
with the animals simply spending more time at rest during the longer activity
periods of summer days. While both groups followed the same pattern of relatively
short activity periods, there were considerable differences between sites in the 
mean duration of the period in a given month, and in behavior patterns, although 
the analysis of the determining factors was beyond the scope of the present
study. Overall, the results of the study indicate that the manipulation of the
duration of the daily activity period may be an integral component of primate
behavioral strategies, and that this parameter should be taken into account
systematically when evaluating activity patterns, especially at sites at
relatively high latitudes where day length may vary considerably over the course 
of the year.

© 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22242 
PMID: 24323495  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

