

1498. J Neurosci. 2013 Oct 16;33(42):16796-804. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.3146-13.2013.

Large-scale brain networks in the awake, truly resting marmoset monkey.

Belcher AM(1), Yen CC, Stepp H, Gu H, Lu H, Yang Y, Silva AC, Stein EA.

Author information: 
(1)Neuroimaging Research Branch, National Institute on Drug Abuse, National
Institutes of Health, Baltimore, Maryland 21224, and Cerebral Microcirculation
Unit, Laboratory of Functional and Molecular Imaging, National Institute of
Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda,
Maryland 20892.

Resting-state functional MRI is a powerful tool that is increasingly used as a
noninvasive method for investigating whole-brain circuitry and holds great
potential as a possible diagnostic for disease. Despite this potential, few
resting-state studies have used animal models (of which nonhuman primates
represent our best opportunity of understanding complex human neuropsychiatric
disease), and no work has characterized networks in awake, truly resting animals.
Here we present results from a small New World monkey that allows for the
characterization of resting-state networks in the awake state. Six adult common
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) were acclimated to light, comfortable restraint
using individualized helmets. Following behavioral training, resting BOLD data
were acquired during eight consecutive 10 min scans for each conscious subject.
Group independent component analysis revealed 12 brain networks that overlap
substantially with known anatomically constrained circuits seen in the awake
human. Specifically, we found eight sensory and "lower-order" networks (four
visual, two somatomotor, one cerebellar, and one caudate-putamen network), and
four "higher-order" association networks (one default mode-like network, one
orbitofrontal, one frontopolar, and one network resembling the human salience
network). In addition to their functional relevance, these network patterns bear 
great correspondence to those previously described in awake humans. This
first-of-its-kind report in an awake New World nonhuman primate provides a
platform for mechanistic neurobiological examination for existing disease models 
established in the marmoset.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.3146-13.2013 
PMCID: PMC3797383
PMID: 24133280  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1499. PLoS One. 2013 Oct 9;8(10):e76297. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0076297. eCollection
2013.

Different responses to reward comparisons by three primate species.

Freeman HD(1), Sullivan J, Hopper LM, Talbot CF, Holmes AN, Schultz-Darken N,
Williams LE, Brosnan SF.

Author information: 
(1)Language Research Center, Georgia State University, Atlanta, Georgia, United
States of America ; Lester E. Fisher Center for the Study and Conservation of
Apes, Lincoln Park Zoo, Chicago, Illinois, United States of America.

BACKGROUND: Recently, much attention has been paid to the role of cooperative
breeding in the evolution of behavior. In many measures, cooperative breeders are
more prosocial than non-cooperatively breeding species, including being more
likely to actively share food. This is hypothesized to be due to selective
pressures specific to the interdependency characteristic of cooperatively
breeding species. Given the high costs of finding a new mate, it has been
proposed that cooperative breeders, unlike primates that cooperate in other
contexts, should not respond negatively to unequal outcomes between themselves
and their partner. However, in this context such pressures may extend beyond
cooperative breeders to other species with pair-bonding and bi-parental care.
METHODS: Here we test the response of two New World primate species with
different parental strategies to unequal outcomes in both individual and social
contrast conditions. One species tested was a cooperative breeder (Callithrix
spp.) and the second practiced bi-parental care (Aotus spp.). Additionally, to
verify our procedure, we tested a third confamilial species that shows no such
interdependence but does respond to individual (but not social) contrast (Saimiri
spp.). We tested all three genera using an established inequity paradigm in which
individuals in a pair took turns to gain rewards that sometimes differed from
those of their partners.
CONCLUSIONS: None of the three species tested responded negatively to inequitable
outcomes in this experimental context. Importantly, the Saimiri spp responded to 
individual contrast, as in earlier studies, validating our procedure. When these 
data are considered in relation to previous studies investigating responses to
inequity in primates, they indicate that one aspect of cooperative breeding,
pair-bonding or bi-parental care, may influence the evolution of these behaviors.
These results emphasize the need to study a variety of species to gain insight in
to how decision-making may vary across social structures.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0076297 
PMCID: PMC3794049
PMID: 24130767  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

