

1499. PLoS One. 2013 Oct 9;8(10):e76297. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0076297. eCollection
2013.

Different responses to reward comparisons by three primate species.

Freeman HD(1), Sullivan J, Hopper LM, Talbot CF, Holmes AN, Schultz-Darken N,
Williams LE, Brosnan SF.

Author information: 
(1)Language Research Center, Georgia State University, Atlanta, Georgia, United
States of America ; Lester E. Fisher Center for the Study and Conservation of
Apes, Lincoln Park Zoo, Chicago, Illinois, United States of America.

BACKGROUND: Recently, much attention has been paid to the role of cooperative
breeding in the evolution of behavior. In many measures, cooperative breeders are
more prosocial than non-cooperatively breeding species, including being more
likely to actively share food. This is hypothesized to be due to selective
pressures specific to the interdependency characteristic of cooperatively
breeding species. Given the high costs of finding a new mate, it has been
proposed that cooperative breeders, unlike primates that cooperate in other
contexts, should not respond negatively to unequal outcomes between themselves
and their partner. However, in this context such pressures may extend beyond
cooperative breeders to other species with pair-bonding and bi-parental care.
METHODS: Here we test the response of two New World primate species with
different parental strategies to unequal outcomes in both individual and social
contrast conditions. One species tested was a cooperative breeder (Callithrix
spp.) and the second practiced bi-parental care (Aotus spp.). Additionally, to
verify our procedure, we tested a third confamilial species that shows no such
interdependence but does respond to individual (but not social) contrast (Saimiri
spp.). We tested all three genera using an established inequity paradigm in which
individuals in a pair took turns to gain rewards that sometimes differed from
those of their partners.
CONCLUSIONS: None of the three species tested responded negatively to inequitable
outcomes in this experimental context. Importantly, the Saimiri spp responded to 
individual contrast, as in earlier studies, validating our procedure. When these 
data are considered in relation to previous studies investigating responses to
inequity in primates, they indicate that one aspect of cooperative breeding,
pair-bonding or bi-parental care, may influence the evolution of these behaviors.
These results emphasize the need to study a variety of species to gain insight in
to how decision-making may vary across social structures.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0076297 
PMCID: PMC3794049
PMID: 24130767  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1500. Hepatology. 2014 Mar;59(3):789-802. doi: 10.1002/hep.26750. Epub 2014 Jan 16.

Infection of common marmosets with hepatitis C virus/GB virus-B chimeras.

Li T(1), Zhu S, Shuai L, Xu Y, Yin S, Bian Y, Wang Y, Zuo B, Wang W, Zhao S,
Zhang L, Zhang J, Gao GF, Allain JP, Li C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Transfusion Medicine, Southern Medical University, Guangzhou,
P.R. China.

The development of vaccination and novel therapy for hepatitis C virus (HCV) has 
been hampered by the lack of suitable small-animal models. GB virus B (GBV-B),
closely related to HCV, causes viral hepatitis in common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchue jacchus) and might represent an attractive surrogate model for HCV
infection. However, differences exist between GBV-B and HCV in spite of a short
genetic distance between the two viruses. Here we report common marmosets
infected with two HCV/GBV-B chimeras containing HCV structural genes coding for
either whole core and envelope proteins (CE1E2p7) or full envelope proteins
(E1E2p7) substituted for the counterpart elements of GBV-B. Naïve animals
intrahepatically injected with chimeric RNA transcripts or intravenously injected
with sera from primary infected animals produced high levels of circulating
infectious chimeric viruses and they developed chronic infection.
Tacrolimus-treated marmosets inoculated with a CE1E2p7 chimera had higher viral
loads and long-term persistent infection. A moderate elevation of serum aspartate
aminotransferase (AST) levels was observed in parallel with viral replication.
Chimeras recovered from liver samples revealed 1/958 adaptive viral mutations.
Histopathological changes typical of viral hepatitis were observed in liver
tissues from all types of HCV chimeras-infected marmosets. HCV core and E2
proteins were detected in liver tissues from infected animals by
immunohistochemical staining. Fluctuations of chimeric virus replication in
marmosets with spontaneous and sporadic viral clearance might be related to
specific antibody and T-cell response to HCV proteins in vivo. Replication of
CE1E2p7 chimera was observed in primary hepatocyte cultures by immunofluorescent 
staining in vitro.CONCLUSION: Infectious HCV chimeras causing chronic hepatitis
in marmosets might constitute a small primate model suitable for evaluation of
virus-cell interaction, vaccination, and antiviral therapy against HCV infection.

© 2014 by the American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases.

DOI: 10.1002/hep.26750 
PMID: 24123143  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

