

1506. Psychoneuroendocrinology. 2013 Dec;38(12):3003-14. doi:
10.1016/j.psyneuen.2013.08.011. Epub 2013 Sep 5.

Quality of maternal and paternal care predicts later stress reactivity in the
cooperatively-breeding marmoset (Callithrix geoffroyi).

Birnie AK(1), Taylor JH, Cavanaugh J, French JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Neuroscience and Behavior Program, University of
Nebraska Omaha, Omaha, NE 68182, United States; Callitrichid Research Center,
University of Nebraska Omaha, Omaha, NE 68182, United States. Electronic address:
abirnie@unomaha.edu.

Variation in the early postnatal social environment can have lasting effects on
hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis stress responses. Both rats and macaque
monkeys subjected to low quality or abusive maternal care during the early
postnatal period have more pronounced HPA responses to environmental stressors
throughout development and into adulthood compared to animals reared in higher
quality early maternal environments. However, little is known about the relative 
contributions to HPA stress response styles in developing offspring in species in
which offspring care is routinely provided by group members other than the
mother, such as in cooperatively breeding mammals. Marmoset monkeys exhibit
cooperative offspring rearing, with fathers and older siblings providing care in 
addition to that provided by the mother. We evaluated the effects of early
maternal, paternal, and older sibling care on HPA responses to social separation 
across development in captive white-faced marmoset offspring (Callithrix
geoffroyi). We monitored offspring care by mothers, fathers, and older siblings
in marmosets for the first 60 days of life. Later in development, each marmoset
experienced three standardized social separation/novelty exposure stressors at 6,
12, and 18 months of age. During separation, we collected urine samples and
analyzed them via enzyme immunoassay for cortisol levels. Infants that received
higher rates of rejections from the entire family group showed higher cortisol
responses to social separation. This relationship was found when mothers,
fathers, and older siblings, were analyzed separately as well. No differences in 
cortisol responses were found between offspring that received high and low rates 
of carrying or high and low rates of licking and grooming by any group member. In
the cooperatively breeding marmoset, early social cues from multiple classes of
caregivers may influence HPA stress responses throughout the lifespan.

Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.psyneuen.2013.08.011 
PMCID: PMC3877691
PMID: 24099861  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1507. PLoS One. 2013 Sep 30;8(9):e74789. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0074789. eCollection
2013.

In vivo manipulation of γ9(+) T cells in the common marmoset (Callithrix Jacchus)
with phosphoantigen and effect on the progression of respiratory melioidosis.

Laws TR(1), Nelson M, Bonnafous C, Sicard H, Taylor C, Salguero FJ, Atkins TP,
Oyston PC, Rowland CA.

Author information: 
(1)Biomedical Sciences Dept, Defence Science and Technology laboratory (DSTL)
Porton Down, Salisbury, United Kingdom.

Burkholderia pseudomallei is a dangerous human pathogen. Phosphoantigens
specifically the target primate specific γ9(+)δ2(+) T cells subset and some have 
been developed as potential immunotherapeutics. Previously, we demonstrated that,
when stimulated with the phosphoantigen CHDMAPP, γ9(+)δ2(+) T cells aid in the
killing of intracellular B. pseudomallei bacteria. Moreover, we found that common
marmoset (Callithrix Jacchus) γ9(+) T cells increase in frequency and respond to 
the phosphoantigen CHDMAPP and/or B. pseudomallei, in combination with IL-2, in a
similar manner to human γ9(+)δ2(+) T cells. Here we evaluate the efficacy of the 
phosphoantigen CHDMAPP, in combination with IL-2, as a therapy against B.
pseudomallei infection, in vivo. We found that the previous studies predicted the
in vivo responsiveness of γ9(+) T cells to the CHDMAPP+IL-2 treatment and
significant expansion of the numbers of peripheral and splenic γ9(+) T cells were
observed. This effect was similar to those reported in other primate species
treated with phosphoantigen. Furthermore, splenocytes were retrieved 7 days post 
onset of treatment, restimulated with CHDMAPP or heat-killed B. pseudomallei and 
the cultured γ9(+) T cells demonstrated no reduction in IFN-γ response when
CHDMAPP+IL-2 animals were compared to IL-2 only treated animals. Using an
established model of B. pseudomallei infection in the marmoset, we assessed the
potential for using phosphoantigen as a novel immunotherapy. The CHDMAPP
treatment regime had no effect on the progression of respiratory melioidosis and 
this was despite the presence of elevated numbers of γ9(+) T cells in the spleen,
liver and lung and an increased proportion of IFN-γ(+) cells in response to
infection. We therefore report that the common marmoset has proven a good model
for studying the effect in vivo of γ9(+) T cell stimulation; however, γ9(+) T
cells have little or no effect on the progression of lethal, respiratory B.
pseudomallei infection.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0074789 
PMCID: PMC3786980
PMID: 24098670  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

