

1515. Sci Rep. 2013;3:2630. doi: 10.1038/srep02630.

A cross-species socio-emotional behaviour development revealed by a multivariate 
analysis.

Koshiba M(1), Senoo A, Mimura K, Shirakawa Y, Karino G, Obara S, Ozawa S,
Sekihara H, Fukushima Y, Ueda T, Kishino H, Tanaka T, Ishibashi H, Yamanouchi H, 
Yui K, Nakamura S.

Author information: 
(1)1] Tokyo University of Agriculture and Technology, Tokyo, Japan [2] National
Institute of Neuroscience, NCNP, Tokyo, Japan [3] Saitama Medical University,
Saitama, Japan.

Recent progress in affective neuroscience and social neurobiology has been
propelled by neuro-imaging technology and epigenetic approach in neurobiology of 
animal behaviour. However, quantitative measurements of socio-emotional
development remains lacking, though sensory-motor development has been
extensively studied in terms of digitised imaging analysis. Here, we developed a 
method for socio-emotional behaviour measurement that is based on the video
recordings under well-defined social context using animal models with variously
social sensory interaction during development. The behaviour features digitized
from the video recordings were visualised in a multivariate statistic space using
principal component analysis. The clustering of the behaviour parameters
suggested the existence of species- and stage-specific as well as cross-species
behaviour modules. These modules were used to characterise the behaviour of
children with or without autism spectrum disorders (ASDs). We found that
socio-emotional behaviour is highly dependent on social context and the
cross-species behaviour modules may predict neurobiological basis of ASDs.

DOI: 10.1038/srep02630 
PMCID: PMC6505395
PMID: 24022241  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1516. Immunogenetics. 2013 Dec;65(12):841-9. doi: 10.1007/s00251-013-0732-7. Epub 2013 
Sep 10.

The repertoire of MHC class I genes in the common marmoset: evidence for
functional plasticity.

van der Wiel MK(1), Otting N, de Groot NG, Doxiadis GG, Bontrop RE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Comparative Genetics and Refinement, Biomedical Primate Research
Centre, Lange Kleiweg 161, 2288 GJ, Rijswijk, The Netherlands.

In humans, the classical antigen presentation function of major
histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I molecules is controlled by the human
leukocyte antigen HLA -A, HLA-B and HLA-C loci. A similar observation has been
made for great apes and Old World monkey species. In contrast, a New World monkey
species such as the cotton-top tamarin (Saguinus oedipus) appears to employ the G
locus for its classical antigen presentation function. At present, little is
known about the classical MHC class I repertoire of the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus), another New World monkey that is widely used in biomedical 
research. In the present population study, no evidence has been found for
abundant transcription of classical I class genes. However, in each common
marmoset, four to seven different G-like alleles were detected, suggesting that
the ancestral locus has been subject to expansion. Segregation studies provided
evidence for at least two G-like genes present per haplotype, which are
transcribed by a variety of cell types. The alleles of these Caja-G genes cluster
in separate lineages, suggesting that the loci diversified considerably after
duplication. Phylogenetic analyses of the introns confirm that the Caja-G loci
cluster in the vicinity of HLA-G, indicating that both genes shared an ancestor. 
In contrast to HLA-G, Caja-G shows considerable polymorphism at the
peptide-binding sites. This observation, together with the lack of detectable
transcripts of A and B-like genes, indicates that Caja-G genes have taken over
the function of classical class I genes. These data highlight the extreme
plasticity of the MHC class I gene system.

DOI: 10.1007/s00251-013-0732-7 
PMID: 24018468  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

