

1516. Immunogenetics. 2013 Dec;65(12):841-9. doi: 10.1007/s00251-013-0732-7. Epub 2013 
Sep 10.

The repertoire of MHC class I genes in the common marmoset: evidence for
functional plasticity.

van der Wiel MK(1), Otting N, de Groot NG, Doxiadis GG, Bontrop RE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Comparative Genetics and Refinement, Biomedical Primate Research
Centre, Lange Kleiweg 161, 2288 GJ, Rijswijk, The Netherlands.

In humans, the classical antigen presentation function of major
histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I molecules is controlled by the human
leukocyte antigen HLA -A, HLA-B and HLA-C loci. A similar observation has been
made for great apes and Old World monkey species. In contrast, a New World monkey
species such as the cotton-top tamarin (Saguinus oedipus) appears to employ the G
locus for its classical antigen presentation function. At present, little is
known about the classical MHC class I repertoire of the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus), another New World monkey that is widely used in biomedical 
research. In the present population study, no evidence has been found for
abundant transcription of classical I class genes. However, in each common
marmoset, four to seven different G-like alleles were detected, suggesting that
the ancestral locus has been subject to expansion. Segregation studies provided
evidence for at least two G-like genes present per haplotype, which are
transcribed by a variety of cell types. The alleles of these Caja-G genes cluster
in separate lineages, suggesting that the loci diversified considerably after
duplication. Phylogenetic analyses of the introns confirm that the Caja-G loci
cluster in the vicinity of HLA-G, indicating that both genes shared an ancestor. 
In contrast to HLA-G, Caja-G shows considerable polymorphism at the
peptide-binding sites. This observation, together with the lack of detectable
transcripts of A and B-like genes, indicates that Caja-G genes have taken over
the function of classical class I genes. These data highlight the extreme
plasticity of the MHC class I gene system.

DOI: 10.1007/s00251-013-0732-7 
PMID: 24018468  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1517. Behav Brain Res. 2013 Nov 1;256:554-63. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2013.09.001. Epub 2013
Sep 7.

Individual differences in choice (in)flexibility but not impulsivity in the
common marmoset: an automated, operant-behavior choice task.

Adriani W(1), Romani C, Manciocco A, Vitale A, Laviola G.

Author information: 
(1)Section of Behavioral Neuroscience, Dept. of Cell Biology & Neurosciences,
Istituto Superiore di Sanità, Rome, Italy. Electronic address:
walter.adriani@iss.it.

Individual differences in behavioural flexibility are a significant issue in
human psychopathology as well as in its animal models. We aimed to investigate
individual variations of operant-choice behaviour in the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus), a small New World primate, using a new operant panel with
two hand-poking holes.METHODS: Experimental subjects (N=16) were presented with a
choice between a Small & Soon (SS) vs a Large & Late (LL) food reward. After
extensive training (31 daily sessions with no delay, during which a basal,
large-reward preference developed), the delay before release of LL was
progressively increased (from 0 to 60 s, during 16 daily sessions; indifferent
point at delay=9 s). Subjects were classified as either "flexible" or
"non-flexible", respectively, based on a decrease (or not) in the preference for 
LL with increasing delays. Each subject was also classified as "maximizer" (or
"non-maximizer") based on capacity (or not) to maximize the food payoff as delay 
increased.
RESULTS: Upon delays shorter than the indifferent point (<9s), none of the
subjects showed a shift from LL to SS, denoting a lack of delay-induced,
cognitive impulsivity. Individual differences only emerged upon delays longer
than the indifferent point (>9 s), when a preference shift could be interpreted
as economically-driven. In general, a profile of few unrewarded hand-pokes in
reaction to initial delays (i.e., a low motor impulsivity) and of clear-cut basal
LL preference seemed to predict elevated flexibility of choices and better food
payoff, which was typical of subjects classified as both "flexible & maximizer".
CONCLUSION: These results provide normative data on the marmosets, which can be
used as a model for the investigation of 1) individual differences in behavioural
flexibility, as well as 2) biological mechanisms rooted in our evolutionary
history.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2013.09.001 
PMID: 24016838  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

