

152. How Might We Get from Genes to Circuits to Disease?.

Kaiser T, Mei Y, Feng G.
In: Nikolich K, Hyman SE, editors. Translational Neuroscience: Toward New
Therapies [Internet]. Cambridge (MA): MIT Press; 2015. Chapter 8.

Recent advances in the identification of risk genes for psychiatric disorders
have set the stage for functional interrogation of disease related-circuits and
underlying mechanisms of pathophysiology. Still, investigators face significant
challenges: (a) hundreds of genes may contribute to pathogenesis of a given
disorder (polygenicity and genetic heterogeneity), (b) risk alleles may only
cause the disease in combination with other factors (reduced penetrance), and (c)
commonly used rodent models may have significant limitations in studying
psychiatric disorders, due to differences in brain structure and function between
rodents and humans. To address these challenges, high-throughput functional
assays should be developed in combination with induced pluripotent stem cells
(iPSC) technology and novel genome-engineering technologies, as these will help
identify common pathways and mechanisms onto which multiple risk genes may
converge. To overcome limitations of current animal models in psychiatric
research, novel genome-editing technologies provide an opportunity to generate
better animal models (e.g., the common marmoset) to dissect disease-relevant
circuit dysfunction. Finally, powerful new tools (e.g., CLARITY, dense neural
circuit reconstruction, and optogenetics) may help identify and test the
relationship between distinct circuit defects and abnormal behaviors observed in 
these animal models. Such approaches are needed to span the gap between emerging 
genetic information and the symptomatic description of neuropsychiatric
disorders.

PMID: 33886215 


153. Anat Rec (Hoboken). 2021 Jun;304(6):1275-1279. doi: 10.1002/ar.24632. Epub 2021
Apr 19.

Collagen quantification in the ventricular walls of the heart of the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Senos R(1)(2), Gomes Benedicto H(3), Macedo Del Rio do Valle C(2), Del Rio do
Valle R(2), L Nayudu P(4), Roberto-Rodrigues M(3), Bombonato PP(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Cummings School of Veterinary Medicine,
Tufts University (Tufts), North Grafton, Massachusetts, USA.
(2)Anatomy of the Domestic and Wild Animals Sector of Universidade de São Paulo
(USP), São Paulo, Brazil.
(3)Department of Morphology, Universidade Federal Fluminense (UFF), Niteroi,
Brazil.
(4)Deutsches Primatenzentrum (DPZ), Göttingen, Germany.

The excellent adaptability of Callithrix jacchus to life in captivity presents
advantages in comparison to other nonhuman primates that are used in experimental
models for biomedical research, which explains the increasing scientific interest
in investigating the anatomical characteristics of this species. Owing to the
relative scarcity of publications on the descriptive morphology of the heart of
C. jacchus, the aim of this study was to quantify the presence of collagen in the
left and right ventricular myocardium using modified picrosirius red and acid
fuchsine colorimetric assays. The myocardium of the right ventricle presented a
higher percentage of collagen than that of the left ventricle. No sex-related
differences were observed between the groups. Interestingly, the absolute values 
of collagen were different depending on the method used for quantification
(modified picrosirius red vs. acid fuchsine). The level of collagen
quantification observed in the ventricular myocardium of C. jacchus was similar
to that seen in other nonhuman primates traditionally used in experimental models
of cardiac diseases.

© 2021 American Association for Anatomy.

DOI: 10.1002/ar.24632 
PMID: 33876561  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

