

1550. Infect Immun. 2013 Aug;81(8):2909-19. doi: 10.1128/IAI.00632-13. Epub 2013 May
28.

Differential virulence and disease progression following Mycobacterium
tuberculosis complex infection of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Via LE(1), Weiner DM, Schimel D, Lin PL, Dayao E, Tankersley SL, Cai Y, Coleman
MT, Tomko J, Paripati P, Orandle M, Kastenmayer RJ, Tartakovsky M, Rosenthal A,
Portevin D, Eum SY, Lahouar S, Gagneux S, Young DB, Flynn JL, Barry CE 3rd.

Author information: 
(1)Tuberculosis Research Section, Laboratory of Clinical Infectious Diseases,
National Institute for Allergy and Infectious Disease, National Institutes of
Health, Bethesda, Maryland, USA.

Existing small-animal models of tuberculosis (TB) rarely develop cavitary
disease, limiting their value for assessing the biology and dynamics of this
highly important feature of human disease. To develop a smaller primate model
with pathology similar to that seen in humans, we experimentally infected the
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) with diverse strains of Mycobacterium
tuberculosis of various pathogenic potentials. These included recent isolates of 
the modern Beijing lineage, the Euro-American X lineage, and M. africanum. All
three strains produced fulminant disease in this animal with a spectrum of
progression rates and clinical sequelae that could be monitored in real time
using 2-deoxy-2-[(18)F]fluoro-d-glucose (FDG) positron emission tomography
(PET)/computed tomography (CT). Lesion pathology at sacrifice revealed the entire
spectrum of lesions observed in human TB patients. The three strains produced
different rates of progression to disease, various extents of extrapulmonary
dissemination, and various degrees of cavitation. The majority of live births in 
this species are twins, and comparison of results from siblings with different
infecting strains allowed us to establish that the infection was highly
reproducible and that the differential virulence of strains was not simply host
variation. Quantitative assessment of disease burden by FDG-PET/CT provided an
accurate reflection of the pathology findings at necropsy. These results suggest 
that the marmoset offers an attractive small-animal model of human disease that
recapitulates both the complex pathology and spectrum of disease observed in
humans infected with various M. tuberculosis strain clades.

DOI: 10.1128/IAI.00632-13 
PMCID: PMC3719573
PMID: 23716617  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1551. Mol Ther Nucleic Acids. 2013 May 28;2:e95. doi: 10.1038/mtna.2013.21.

Robust Long-term Transduction of Common Marmoset Neuromuscular Tissue With rAAV1 
and rAAV9.

Okada H(1), Ishibashi H, Hayashita-Kinoh H, Chiyo T, Nitahara-Kasahara Y, Baba Y,
Watanabe S, Takeda S, Okada T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Therapy, National Institute of Neuroscience, National 
Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, Tokyo, Japan.

Profiles of recombinant adeno-associated virus (rAAV)-mediated transduction show 
interspecies differences for each AAV serotype. Robust long-term transgene
expression is generally observed in rodents, whereas insufficient transduction is
seen in animals with more advanced immune systems. Non-human primates, including 
the common marmoset, could provide appropriate models for neuromuscular diseases 
because of their higher brain functions and physiological resemblance to humans. 
Strategies to induce pathologies in the neuromuscular tissues of non-human
primates by rAAV-mediated transduction are promising; however, transgene
expression patterns with rAAV transduction have not been elucidated in marmosets.
In this study, transduction of adult marmoset skeletal muscle with rAAV9 led to
robust and persistent enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) expression that
was independent of the muscle fiber type, although lymphocyte infiltration was
recognized. Systemic rAAV injection into pregnant marmosets led to transplacental
fetal transduction. Surprisingly, the intraperitoneal injection of rAAV1 and
rAAV9 into the neonatal marmoset resulted in systemic transduction and persistent
transgene expression without lymphocyte infiltration. Skeletal and cardiac muscle
were effectively transduced with rAAV1 and rAAV9, respectively. Interestingly,
rAAV9 transduction led to intense EGFP signaling in the axons of the corpus
callosum. These transduction protocols with rAAV will be useful for investigating
gene functions in the neuromuscular tissues and developing gene therapy
strategies.Molecular Therapy-Nucleic Acids (2013) 2, e95;
doi:10.1038/mtna.2013.21; published online 28 May 2013.

DOI: 10.1038/mtna.2013.21 
PMCID: PMC4817936
PMID: 23715217 

