

1569. Neuroimage. 2013 Sep;78:16-32. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2013.04.016. Epub 2013
Apr 13.

Mean apparent propagator (MAP) MRI: a novel diffusion imaging method for mapping 
tissue microstructure.

Özarslan E(1), Koay CG, Shepherd TM, Komlosh ME, İrfanoğlu MO, Pierpaoli C,
Basser PJ.

Author information: 
(1)Section on Tissue Biophysics and Biomimetics, PPITS, NICHD, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA. evren@bwh.harvard.edu

Diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance (MR) signals reflect information about
underlying tissue microstructure and cytoarchitecture. We propose a quantitative,
efficient, and robust mathematical and physical framework for representing
diffusion-weighted MR imaging (MRI) data obtained in "q-space," and the
corresponding "mean apparent propagator (MAP)" describing molecular displacements
in "r-space." We also define and map novel quantitative descriptors of diffusion 
that can be computed robustly using this MAP-MRI framework. We describe efficient
analytical representation of the three-dimensional q-space MR signal in a series 
expansion of basis functions that accurately describes diffusion in many complex 
geometries. The lowest order term in this expansion contains a diffusion tensor
that characterizes the Gaussian displacement distribution, equivalent to
diffusion tensor MRI (DTI). Inclusion of higher order terms enables the
reconstruction of the true average propagator whose projection onto the unit
"displacement" sphere provides an orientational distribution function (ODF) that 
contains only the orientational dependence of the diffusion process. The
representation characterizes novel features of diffusion anisotropy and the
non-Gaussian character of the three-dimensional diffusion process. Other
important measures this representation provides include the return-to-the-origin 
probability (RTOP), and its variants for diffusion in one- and two-dimensions-the
return-to-the-plane probability (RTPP), and the return-to-the-axis probability
(RTAP), respectively. These zero net displacement probabilities measure the mean 
compartment (pore) volume and cross-sectional area in distributions of isolated
pores irrespective of the pore shape. MAP-MRI represents a new comprehensive
framework to model the three-dimensional q-space signal and transform it into
diffusion propagators. Experiments on an excised marmoset brain specimen
demonstrate that MAP-MRI provides several novel, quantifiable parameters that
capture previously obscured intrinsic features of nervous tissue microstructure. 
This should prove helpful for investigating the functional organization of normal
and pathologic nervous tissue.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2013.04.016 
PMCID: PMC4059870
PMID: 23587694  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1570. Behav Brain Res. 2013 Jul 1;248:144-50. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2013.04.001. Epub 2013
Apr 8.

Hand preference depends on posture in common marmosets.

Hashimoto T(1), Yamazaki Y, Iriki A.

Author information: 
(1)Lab for Symbolic Cognitive Development, RIKEN Brain Science Institute,
Saitama, Japan.

Postural conditions are known to affect hand use in many primate species. It
remains to be examined how posture and task differences modulate, or interact
with, hand use in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). Three experimental
conditions were introduced to assess the occurrence of preferential hand use as a
function of posture and size of aperture for the subjects to grasp and retrieve
the food item bi- or unimanually: ground level condition for requiring
quadrupedal posture with enough space for food reaching with both hands, large
hole (4 cm in diameter) condition for requiring upright posture with available
space for both hands, and small hole (2 cm in diameter) condition for requiring
upright posture with available space for only one hand. While the distribution of
hand preference did not significantly differ among the three conditions at the
group level, eight out of twelve marmosets did not change hands when identical
upright postures were required in large and small hole conditions. Some marmosets
simultaneously used both hands when both hands were free to reach the food items;
however, the number of left hand users increased when the marmosets were forced
to use either hand to pass through the reduced hole size. Significant
correlations in hand use between the upright posture conditions were observed,
whereas no correlation was observed between the different posture conditions.
These results suggest that, although preferential hand use was not found at group
level, posture, but not size of aperture, has effects on hand use in individual
common marmosets.

Copyright © 2013 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2013.04.001 
PMID: 23578761  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

