

1571. Front Neural Circuits. 2013 Apr 9;7:43. doi: 10.3389/fncir.2013.00043.
eCollection 2013.

Monocular inhibition reveals temporal and spatial changes in gene expression in
the primary visual cortex of marmoset.

Nakagami Y(1), Watakabe A, Yamamori T.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Brain Biology, Department of Neurobiology, National Institute for 
Basic Biology Okazaki, Japan.

We investigated the time course of the expression of several activity-dependent
genes evoked by visual inputs in the primary visual cortex (V1) in adult
marmosets. In order to examine the rapid time course of activity-dependent gene
expression, marmosets were first monocularly inactivated by tetrodotoxin (TTX),
kept in darkness for two days, and then exposed to various length of light
stimulation. Activity-dependent genes including HTR1B, HTR2A, whose
activity-dependency were previously reported by us, and well-known immediate
early genes (IEGs), c-FOS, ZIF268, and ARC, were examined by in situ
hybridization. Using this system, first, we demonstrated the ocular dominance
type of gene expression pattern in V1 under this condition. IEGs were expressed
in columnar patterns throughout layers II-VI of all the tested monocular
marmosets. Second, we showed the regulation of HTR1B and HTR2A expressions by
retinal spontaneous activity, because HTR1B and HTR2A mRNA expressions sustained 
a certain level regardless of visual stimulation and were inhibited by a blockade
of the retinal activity with TTX. Third, IEGs dynamically changed its laminar
distribution from half an hour to several hours upon a stimulus onset with the
unique time course for each gene. The expression patterns of these genes were
different in neurons of each layer as well. These results suggest that the
regulation of each neuron in the primary visual cortex of marmosets is subjected 
to different regulation upon the change of activities from retina. It should be
related to a highly differentiated laminar structure of marmoset visual systems, 
reflecting the functions of the activity-dependent gene expression in marmoset
V1.

DOI: 10.3389/fncir.2013.00043 
PMCID: PMC3620563
PMID: 23576954  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1572. Neuroimage. 2013 Sep;78:186-95. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2013.03.038. Epub 2013 
Apr 6.

fMRI in the awake marmoset: somatosensory-evoked responses, functional
connectivity, and comparison with propofol anesthesia.

Liu JV(1), Hirano Y, Nascimento GC, Stefanovic B, Leopold DA, Silva AC.

Author information: 
(1)Cerebral Microcirculation Unit, Laboratory of Functional and Molecular
Imaging, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National
Institutes of Health, 10 Center Drive, Building 10, Room B1D106, Bethesda, MD
20892, USA. liu@junjie.com

Functional neuroimaging in animal models is essential for understanding the
principles of neurovascular coupling and the physiological basis of fMRI signals 
that are widely used to study sensory and cognitive processing in the human
brain. While hemodynamic responses to sensory stimuli have been characterized in 
humans, animal studies are able to combine very high resolution imaging with
invasive measurements and pharmacological manipulation. To date, most
high-resolution studies of neurovascular coupling in small animals have been
carried out in anesthetized rodents. Here we report fMRI experiments in
conscious, awake common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus), and compare responses to 
animals anesthetized with propofol. In conscious marmosets, robust BOLD fMRI
responses to somatosensory stimulation of the forearm were found in contralateral
and ipsilateral regions of the thalamus, primary (SI) and secondary (SII)
somatosensory cortex, and the caudate nucleus. These responses were markedly
stronger than those in anesthetized marmosets and showed a monotonic increase in 
the amplitude of the BOLD response with stimulus frequency. On the other hand,
anesthesia significantly attenuated responses in thalamus, SI and SII, and
abolished responses in caudate and ipsilateral SI. Moreover, anesthesia
influenced several other aspects of the fMRI responses, including the shape of
the hemodynamic response function and the interareal (SI-SII) spontaneous
functional connectivity. Together, these findings demonstrate the value of the
conscious, awake marmoset model for studying physiological responses in the
somatosensory pathway, in the absence of anesthesia, so that the data can be
compared most directly to fMRI in conscious humans.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2013.03.038 
PMCID: PMC3778909
PMID: 23571417  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

