

1592. Behav Brain Res. 2013 Jun 1;246:47-54. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2013.01.047. Epub 2013 
Feb 27.

Do robots have goals? How agent cues influence action understanding in non-human 
primates.

Kupferberg A(1), Glasauer S, Burkart JM.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Sensorimotor Research, Clinical Neurosciences,
Ludwig-Maximilians-University Munich, Germany.

The capacity to understand goals and intentions emerges early and universally in 
humans and is a basic precondition for the interpretation and prediction of
others' actions, be it other humans, animals, or even robots. It is unclear,
however, how this goal attribution system is acquired, in particular with regard 
to the role of prior experience with the actor and visual characteristics that
are necessary. In four preferential looking time experiments we examined how
familiarity, appearance, and movement of different agents influence the
capability of marmosets to perceive the behavior of these agents as goal
directed. To this end we compared the monkeys' reactions to the same
goal-directed actions performed by four different agents: a human actor, a
conspecific, a monkey-like small robot, and a black box. The results showed that 
monkeys attributed goals to the human actor, the conspecific, and the robot, but 
not the box. Thus, the monkeys extended their capacity for goal attribution not
only to familiar agents, but also to agents not previously encountered, provided 
that they had some conspecific-like features. Our results suggest that in
non-human primates, the system for goal attribution does not require previous
experience with a specific agent or agent-category, as long as it exhibits
certain visual characteristics like face, body or legs. Furthermore, the results 
suggest that the capacity to attribute goals emerged very early during evolution 
and, at least in marmoset monkeys, does not necessarily require pre-learned
associations in order to fulfill its function when dealing with unfamiliar
agents.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2013.01.047 
PMID: 23454673  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1593. PLoS One. 2013;8(2):e56296. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0056296. Epub 2013 Feb 25.

Immune-related gene expression profile in laboratory common marmosets assessed by
an accurate quantitative real-time PCR using selected reference genes.

Fujii Y(1), Kitaura K, Matsutani T, Shirai K, Suzuki S, Takasaki T, Kumagai K,
Kametani Y, Shiina T, Takabayashi S, Katoh H, Hamada Y, Kurane I, Suzuki R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Rheumatology and Clinical Immunology, Clinical Research Center
for Allergy and Rheumatology, Sagamihara National Hospital, National Hospital
Organization, Kanagawa, Japan.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is considered a novel experimental
animal model of non-human primates. However, due to antibody unavailability,
immunological and pathological studies have not been adequately conducted in
various disease models of common marmoset. Quantitative real-time PCR (qPCR) is a
powerful tool to examine gene expression levels. Recent reports have shown that
selection of internal reference housekeeping genes are required for accurate
normalization of gene expression. To develop a reliable qPCR method in common
marmoset, we used geNorm applets to evaluate the expression stability of eight
candidate reference genes (GAPDH, ACTB, rRNA, B2M, UBC, HPRT, SDHA and TBP) in
various tissues from laboratory common marmosets. geNorm analysis showed that
GAPDH, ACTB, SDHA and TBP were generally ranked high in stability followed by
UBC. In contrast, HPRT, rRNA and B2M exhibited lower expression stability than
other genes in most tissues analyzed. Furthermore, by using the improved qPCR
with selected reference genes, we analyzed the expression levels of CD antigens
(CD3ε, CD4, CD8α and CD20) and cytokines (IL-1β, IL-2, IL-4, IL-5, IL-6, IL-10,
IL-12β, IL-13, IFN-γ and TNF-α) in peripheral blood leukocytes and compared them 
between common marmosets and humans. The expression levels of CD4 and IL-4 were
lower in common marmosets than in humans whereas those of IL-10, IL-12β and IFN-γ
were higher in the common marmoset. The ratio of Th1-related gene expression
level to that of Th2-related genes was inverted in common marmosets. We confirmed
the inverted ratio of CD4 to CD8 in common marmosets by flow cytometric analysis.
Therefore, the difference in Th1/Th2 balance between common marmosets and humans 
may affect host defense and/or disease susceptibility, which should be carefully 
considered when using common marmoset as an experimental model for biomedical
research.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0056296 
PMCID: PMC3581525
PMID: 23451040  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

