

1601. J Med Primatol. 2013 Jun;42(3):112-9. doi: 10.1111/jmp.12042. Epub 2013 Feb 21.

Medical treatment improves social behavior in a primate endometriosis model
(Callithrix jacchus).

Arnold C(1), Einspanier A.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Physiological Chemistry, Veterinary Faculty, University of
Leipzig, Leipzig, Germany. einspanier@vetmed.uni-leipzig.de

BACKGROUND: As endometriosis is known to be very painful in humans, therapeutic
studies should consider pain-related aspects in experimental animals too. In a
previous study, we found that common marmosets suffering from endometriosis show 
remarkable deviations in social behavior and cognitive tasks.
METHODS: Female marmosets with endometriosis undergoing medical treatment were
tested vs. two control groups (healthy and endometriosis monkeys without
treatment) concerning behavioral aspects, cognitive skills, and mobility.
RESULTS: The treated monkeys performed significant more social and self-grooming,
comfort behavior and were more active than the untreated endometriosis monkeys.
The treated marmosets even returned to equal levels as their healthy
conspecifics. Cognitive and mobility tests revealed no significant differences.
CONCLUSIONS: A beneficial effect of the applied endometriosis medication on
behavioral impairments could be obtained. Including such measurements in
therapeutic research contributes to aspects of animal welfare and pain-relieving 
potential of the tested compound.

© 2013 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jmp.12042 
PMID: 23432639  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1602. Reproduction. 2013 Apr 15;145(4):439-51. doi: 10.1530/REP-12-0373. Print 2013
Apr.

Experimental endocrine manipulation by contraceptive regimen in the male marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus).

Wistuba J(1), Luetjens CM, Ehmcke J, Redmann K, Damm OS, Steinhoff A,
Sandhowe-Klaverkamp R, Nieschlag E, Simoni M, Schlatt S.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Reproductive and Regenerative Biology, Centre of Reproductive
Medicine and Andrology, University of Münster, Albert-Schweitzer-Campus 1, 48129 
Münster, Germany. joachim.wistuba@ukmuenster.de

Marmosets are used as preclinical model in reproductive research. In contrast to 
other primates, they display short gestation times rendering this species valid
for exploration of effects on fertility. However, their peculiar endocrine
regulation differs from a those of macaques and humans. We subjected male
marmosets to previously clinically tested hormonal regimens that are known to
effectively suppress spermatogenesis. Beside a control group, seven groups (each 
n=6) were investigated for different periods of up to 42 months: regimen I, (four
groups) received testosterone undecanoate (TU) and norethisterone enanthate
(NETE); regimen II, (two groups) received TU and NETE followed by NETE only; and 
regimen III, (one group) received NETE only. Testicular volume, cell ploidy and
histology, endocrine changes and fertility were monitored weekly. TU and NETE and
initial TU and NETE treatment followed by NETE failed to suppress spermatogenesis
and fertility. Testicular volumes dropped, although spermatogenesis was only
mildly affected; however, testicular cellular composition remained stable. Serum 
testosterone dropped when NETE was given alone but the animals remained fertile. 
Compared with controls, no significant changes were observed in sperm motility
and fertility. Administration of TU and NETE affected testicular function only
mildly, indicating that the regulatory role of chorionic gonadotrophin and
testosterone on spermatogenesis is obviously limited and testicular function is
maintained, although the endocrine axis is affected by the treatment. In
conclusion, marmosets showed a different response to regimens of male
contraception from macaques or men and have to be considered as a problematic
model for preclinical trials of male hormonal contraception.

DOI: 10.1530/REP-12-0373 
PMID: 23431271  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

