

1602. Reproduction. 2013 Apr 15;145(4):439-51. doi: 10.1530/REP-12-0373. Print 2013
Apr.

Experimental endocrine manipulation by contraceptive regimen in the male marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus).

Wistuba J(1), Luetjens CM, Ehmcke J, Redmann K, Damm OS, Steinhoff A,
Sandhowe-Klaverkamp R, Nieschlag E, Simoni M, Schlatt S.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Reproductive and Regenerative Biology, Centre of Reproductive
Medicine and Andrology, University of Münster, Albert-Schweitzer-Campus 1, 48129 
Münster, Germany. joachim.wistuba@ukmuenster.de

Marmosets are used as preclinical model in reproductive research. In contrast to 
other primates, they display short gestation times rendering this species valid
for exploration of effects on fertility. However, their peculiar endocrine
regulation differs from a those of macaques and humans. We subjected male
marmosets to previously clinically tested hormonal regimens that are known to
effectively suppress spermatogenesis. Beside a control group, seven groups (each 
n=6) were investigated for different periods of up to 42 months: regimen I, (four
groups) received testosterone undecanoate (TU) and norethisterone enanthate
(NETE); regimen II, (two groups) received TU and NETE followed by NETE only; and 
regimen III, (one group) received NETE only. Testicular volume, cell ploidy and
histology, endocrine changes and fertility were monitored weekly. TU and NETE and
initial TU and NETE treatment followed by NETE failed to suppress spermatogenesis
and fertility. Testicular volumes dropped, although spermatogenesis was only
mildly affected; however, testicular cellular composition remained stable. Serum 
testosterone dropped when NETE was given alone but the animals remained fertile. 
Compared with controls, no significant changes were observed in sperm motility
and fertility. Administration of TU and NETE affected testicular function only
mildly, indicating that the regulatory role of chorionic gonadotrophin and
testosterone on spermatogenesis is obviously limited and testicular function is
maintained, although the endocrine axis is affected by the treatment. In
conclusion, marmosets showed a different response to regimens of male
contraception from macaques or men and have to be considered as a problematic
model for preclinical trials of male hormonal contraception.

DOI: 10.1530/REP-12-0373 
PMID: 23431271  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1603. Toxicol Pathol. 2013;41(7):941-50. doi: 10.1177/0192623313477753. Epub 2013 Feb
20.

ACAT-selective and nonselective DGAT1 inhibition: adrenocortical effects--a
cross-species comparison.

Floettmann JE(1), Buckett LK, Turnbull AV, Smith T, Hallberg C, Birch A, Lees D, 
Jones HB.

Author information: 
(1)1Global Safety Assessment, AstraZeneca, Alderley Park, Macclesfield, United
Kingdom.

Acyl-coenzyme A: cholesterol O-Acyltransferase (ACAT) and Acyl-coenzyme A:
diacylglycerol O-acyltransferase (DGAT) enzymes play important roles in
synthesizing neutral lipids, and inhibitors of these enzymes have been
investigated as potential treatments for diabetes and other metabolic diseases.
Administration of a Acyl-coenzyme A: diacylglycerol O-acyltransferase 1 (DGAT1)
inhibitor with very limited cellular selectivity over ACAT resulted in
significant adrenocortical degenerative changes in dogs. These changes included
macrosteatotic vacuolation associated with adrenocyte cell death in the zonae
glomerulosa and fasciculata and minimal to substantial mixed inflammatory cell
infiltration and were similar to those described previously for some ACAT
inhibitors in dogs. In the mouse, similar but only transient adrenocortical
degenerative changes were seen as well as a distinctive nondegenerative reduction
in cortical fine vacuolation. In the marmoset, only the distinctive
nondegenerative reduction in cortical fine vacuolation was observed, suggesting
that the dog, followed by the mouse, is the most sensitive species for cortical
degeneration. Biochemical analysis of adrenal cholesterol and cholesteryl ester
indicated that the distinctive reduction in cortical fine vacuolation correlated 
with a significant reduction in cholesteryl ester in the mouse and marmoset,
whereas no significant reduction in cholestryl ester, but an increase in free
cholesterol was observed in dogs. Administration of a DGAT1 inhibitor with
markedly improved selectivity over ACAT to the marmoset and the mouse resulted in
no adrenal pathology at exposures sufficient to cause substantial DGAT1 but not
ACAT inhibition, thereby implicating ACAT rather than DGAT1 inhibition as the
probable cause of the observed adrenal changes. Recognizing that the distinctive 
nondegenerative reduction in cortical fine vacuolation in the mouse could be used
as a histopathological biomarker for an in vivo model of the more severe changes 
observed in dogs, the mouse has subsequently been used as a model to select DGAT1
inhibitors free of adrenocortical toxicity.

DOI: 10.1177/0192623313477753 
PMID: 23427273  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

