

1603. Toxicol Pathol. 2013;41(7):941-50. doi: 10.1177/0192623313477753. Epub 2013 Feb
20.

ACAT-selective and nonselective DGAT1 inhibition: adrenocortical effects--a
cross-species comparison.

Floettmann JE(1), Buckett LK, Turnbull AV, Smith T, Hallberg C, Birch A, Lees D, 
Jones HB.

Author information: 
(1)1Global Safety Assessment, AstraZeneca, Alderley Park, Macclesfield, United
Kingdom.

Acyl-coenzyme A: cholesterol O-Acyltransferase (ACAT) and Acyl-coenzyme A:
diacylglycerol O-acyltransferase (DGAT) enzymes play important roles in
synthesizing neutral lipids, and inhibitors of these enzymes have been
investigated as potential treatments for diabetes and other metabolic diseases.
Administration of a Acyl-coenzyme A: diacylglycerol O-acyltransferase 1 (DGAT1)
inhibitor with very limited cellular selectivity over ACAT resulted in
significant adrenocortical degenerative changes in dogs. These changes included
macrosteatotic vacuolation associated with adrenocyte cell death in the zonae
glomerulosa and fasciculata and minimal to substantial mixed inflammatory cell
infiltration and were similar to those described previously for some ACAT
inhibitors in dogs. In the mouse, similar but only transient adrenocortical
degenerative changes were seen as well as a distinctive nondegenerative reduction
in cortical fine vacuolation. In the marmoset, only the distinctive
nondegenerative reduction in cortical fine vacuolation was observed, suggesting
that the dog, followed by the mouse, is the most sensitive species for cortical
degeneration. Biochemical analysis of adrenal cholesterol and cholesteryl ester
indicated that the distinctive reduction in cortical fine vacuolation correlated 
with a significant reduction in cholesteryl ester in the mouse and marmoset,
whereas no significant reduction in cholestryl ester, but an increase in free
cholesterol was observed in dogs. Administration of a DGAT1 inhibitor with
markedly improved selectivity over ACAT to the marmoset and the mouse resulted in
no adrenal pathology at exposures sufficient to cause substantial DGAT1 but not
ACAT inhibition, thereby implicating ACAT rather than DGAT1 inhibition as the
probable cause of the observed adrenal changes. Recognizing that the distinctive 
nondegenerative reduction in cortical fine vacuolation in the mouse could be used
as a histopathological biomarker for an in vivo model of the more severe changes 
observed in dogs, the mouse has subsequently been used as a model to select DGAT1
inhibitors free of adrenocortical toxicity.

DOI: 10.1177/0192623313477753 
PMID: 23427273  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1604. J Tissue Eng Regen Med. 2015 Apr;9(4):473-9. doi: 10.1002/term.1709. Epub 2013
Feb 18.

Embryonic stem cells of the non-human primate Callithrix jacchus can be
differentiated into definitive endoderm by Activin-A but not IDE-1/2.

Diekmann U(1), Naujok O, Blasczyk R, Müller T.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Clinical Biochemistry, Hannover Medical School, Hannover,
Germany; Institute for Transfusion Medicine, Hannover Medical School, Hannover,
Germany.

Pluripotent stem cells hold great promise for regenerative medicine, due to their
unlimited self-renewal potential and the ability to differentiate into all
somatic cell types. Differences between the rodent disease models and the
situation in humans can be narrowed down with non-human primate models. The
common marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus) is an interesting model for
biomedical research because these animals are easy to breed, get relatively old
(≤ 13 years), are small in size, are relatively cost-effective and have a high
genetic proximity to the human. In particular, diseases of the liver and pancreas
are interesting for cell replacement therapies but the in vitro differentiation
of ESCs into the definitive endoderm germ layer is still a demanding task.
Membrane-permeable, chemically defined small molecules can possibly replace
recombinant growth factors used in most directed differentiation protocols.
However, the potent small molecules IDE-1 and IDE-2 were not able to induce
definitive endoderm-like cells when ESCs from the common marmoset were treated
with these compounds, whereas the recombinant growth factor Activin A could force
the differentiation into this lineage. Our results indicate that ESCs from the
common marmoset are less sensitive or even insensitive to these small molecules. 
Thus, differences between the species of human ESCs and ESCs of this non-human
primate might be a useful model to further evaluate the exact mode of action of
these compounds.

Copyright © 2013 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/term.1709 
PMID: 23418163  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

