

1604. J Tissue Eng Regen Med. 2015 Apr;9(4):473-9. doi: 10.1002/term.1709. Epub 2013
Feb 18.

Embryonic stem cells of the non-human primate Callithrix jacchus can be
differentiated into definitive endoderm by Activin-A but not IDE-1/2.

Diekmann U(1), Naujok O, Blasczyk R, Müller T.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Clinical Biochemistry, Hannover Medical School, Hannover,
Germany; Institute for Transfusion Medicine, Hannover Medical School, Hannover,
Germany.

Pluripotent stem cells hold great promise for regenerative medicine, due to their
unlimited self-renewal potential and the ability to differentiate into all
somatic cell types. Differences between the rodent disease models and the
situation in humans can be narrowed down with non-human primate models. The
common marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus) is an interesting model for
biomedical research because these animals are easy to breed, get relatively old
(≤ 13 years), are small in size, are relatively cost-effective and have a high
genetic proximity to the human. In particular, diseases of the liver and pancreas
are interesting for cell replacement therapies but the in vitro differentiation
of ESCs into the definitive endoderm germ layer is still a demanding task.
Membrane-permeable, chemically defined small molecules can possibly replace
recombinant growth factors used in most directed differentiation protocols.
However, the potent small molecules IDE-1 and IDE-2 were not able to induce
definitive endoderm-like cells when ESCs from the common marmoset were treated
with these compounds, whereas the recombinant growth factor Activin A could force
the differentiation into this lineage. Our results indicate that ESCs from the
common marmoset are less sensitive or even insensitive to these small molecules. 
Thus, differences between the species of human ESCs and ESCs of this non-human
primate might be a useful model to further evaluate the exact mode of action of
these compounds.

Copyright © 2013 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/term.1709 
PMID: 23418163  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1605. Anim Cogn. 2013 Sep;16(5):773-88. doi: 10.1007/s10071-013-0611-5. Epub 2013 Feb
15.

Facial expressions in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) and their use by
conspecifics.

Kemp C(1), Kaplan G.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Neuroscience and Animal Behaviour, School of Science and
Technology, Faculty of Arts and Science, University of New England, Armidale, NSW
2351, Australia. caralyn@kemputer.com.au

Facial expressions have been studied mainly in chimpanzees and have been shown to
be important social signals. In platyrrhine and strepsirrhine primates, it has
been doubted that facial expressions are differentiated enough, or the species
socially capable enough, for facial expressions to be part of their communication
system. However, in a series of experiments presenting olfactory, auditory and
visual stimuli, we found that common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) displayed an 
unexpected variety of facial expressions. Especially, olfactory and auditory
stimuli elicited obvious facial displays (such as disgust), some of which are
reported here for the first time. We asked whether specific facial responses to
food and predator-related stimuli might act as social signals to conspecifics. We
recorded two contrasting facial expressions (fear and pleasure) as separate sets 
of video clips and then presented these to cage mates of those marmosets shown in
the images, while tempting the subject with food. Results show that the
expression of a fearful face on screen significantly reduced time spent near the 
food bowl compared to the duration when a face showing pleasure was screened.
This responsiveness to a cage mate's facial expressions suggests that the
evolution of facial signals may have occurred much earlier in primate evolution
than had been thought.

DOI: 10.1007/s10071-013-0611-5 
PMID: 23412667  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

