

1612. Lipids Health Dis. 2013 Feb 4;12:10. doi: 10.1186/1476-511X-12-10.

Diverse captive non-human primates with phytanic acid-deficient diets rich in
plant products have substantial phytanic acid levels in their red blood cells.

Moser AB(1), Hey J, Dranchak PK, Karaman MW, Zhao J, Cox LA, Ryder OA, Hacia JG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Broad Center for
Regenerative Medicine and Stem Cell Research, University of Southern California, 
Los Angeles, CA 90089, USA.

BACKGROUND: Humans and rodents with impaired phytanic acid (PA) metabolism can
accumulate toxic stores of PA that have deleterious effects on multiple organ
systems. Ruminants and certain fish obtain PA from the microbial degradation of
dietary chlorophyll and/or through chlorophyll-derived precursors. In contrast,
humans cannot derive PA from chlorophyll and instead normally obtain it only from
meat, dairy, and fish products.
RESULTS: Captive apes and Old world monkeys had significantly higher red blood
cell (RBC) PA levels relative to humans when all subjects were fed PA-deficient
diets. Given the adverse health effects resulting from PA over accumulation, we
investigated the molecular evolution of thirteen PA metabolism genes in apes, Old
world monkeys, and New world monkeys. All non-human primate (NHP) orthologs are
predicted to encode full-length proteins with the marmoset Phyh gene containing a
rare, but functional, GA splice donor dinucleotide. Acox2, Scp2, and Pecr
sequences had amino acid positions with accelerated substitution rates while
Amacr had significant variation in evolutionary rates in apes relative to other
primates.
CONCLUSIONS: Unlike humans, diverse captive NHPs with PA-deficient diets rich in 
plant products have substantial RBC PA levels. The favored hypothesis is that
NHPs can derive significant amounts of PA from the degradation of ingested
chlorophyll through gut fermentation. If correct, this raises the possibility
that RBC PA levels could serve as a biomarker for evaluating the digestive health
of captive NHPs. Furthermore, the evolutionary rates of the several genes
relevant to PA metabolism provide candidate genetic adaptations to NHP diets.

DOI: 10.1186/1476-511X-12-10 
PMCID: PMC3571895
PMID: 23379307  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1613. Nihon Shinkei Seishin Yakurigaku Zasshi. 2012 Nov;32(5-6):287-92.

[Restorative therapy in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis].

[Article in Japanese]

Aoki M(1).

Author information: 
(1)(Department of Neurology, Tohoku University School of Medicine, 1-1,
Seiryo-machi, Aoba-ku, Sendai 980-8574, Japan.

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is an adult onset neurodegenerative disorder 
characterized by the death of upper and lower motor neurons. About 10% of all ALS
cases are familial; approximately 20% of familial ALS cases are caused by
mutations in the superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) gene. We developed rats that
express a human SOD1 transgene with ALS-associated mutations, developing striking
motor neuron degeneration and paralysis. The larger size of this rat model as
compared with the ALS mice, will facilitate studies involving manipulations of
spinal fluid and the spinal cord. Hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) is one of the
most potent survival-promoting factors for motor neurons. We administered human
recombinant HGF (hrHGF) by continuous intrathecal delivery to the transgenic rats
at the onset of paralysis for 4 weeks. Intrathecal administration of hrHGF
attenuated motor neuron degeneration and prolonged the duration of the disease by
63%. To translate this strategy to human treatment, we induced a contusive
cervical spinal cord injury in the common marmoset, a primate, and then
administered hrHGF intrathecally. The intrathecal administration of hrHGF
promoted functional recovery. These results prompted further clinical trials in
ALS using continuous intrathecal administration of hrHGF.


PMID: 23373317  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

