

1619. Eur J Neurosci. 2013 Apr;37(7):1072-89. doi: 10.1111/ejn.12117. Epub 2013 Jan 13.

Organisation of koniocellular-projecting ganglion cells and diffuse bipolar cells
in the primate fovea.

Percival KA(1), Martin PR, Grünert U.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Save Sight Institute, The University of
Sydney, Sydney, NSW 2001, Australia.

The roles of the midget and parasol pathways as the anatomical foundation for
high-acuity vision at the fovea are well established. There is also evidence for 
the presence of other (non-midget, non-parasol) ganglion cell types in the foveal
retina, but it is not established whether these cells receive input from cone
photoreceptors in the central few degrees of the visual field, i.e. the region
most important for conscious visual perception. To address this question, we
targeted injections of retrograde tracer to the koniocellular layers in the
posterior aspect of the lateral geniculate nucleus, where the central visual
field is represented, in marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus). Labeled ganglion 
cells were photofilled to reveal their dendritic morphology. Potential inputs to 
foveal koniocellular cells from diffuse bipolar cells were investigated in
vertical sections through the fovea of marmoset and macaque (Macaca fascicularis)
monkey retinas using immunohistochemistry. Forty koniocellular-projecting
ganglion cells were analysed. We used an established model of marmoset foveal
topography to show that all these koniocellular-projecting cells receive cone
inputs from the central-most 6°, with about half the cells receiving input from
below 2° eccentricity, in the rod-free central bouquet of cones at the foveola.
In addition, all diffuse bipolar types investigated were present in the fovea at 
stratification depths similar to those of their counterparts in the peripheral
retina. We conclude that the diverse visual representations established for
koniocellular pathways in the peripheral retina are also a feature of the fovea, 
suggesting that koniocellular pathways contribute to foveal vision.

© 2013 Federation of European Neuroscience Societies and Blackwell Publishing
Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/ejn.12117 
PMID: 23311464  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1620. PLoS One. 2012;7(12):e52787. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0052787. Epub 2012 Dec 27.

Pre-evaluated safe human iPSC-derived neural stem cells promote functional
recovery after spinal cord injury in common marmoset without tumorigenicity.

Kobayashi Y(1), Okada Y, Itakura G, Iwai H, Nishimura S, Yasuda A, Nori S,
Hikishima K, Konomi T, Fujiyoshi K, Tsuji O, Toyama Y, Yamanaka S, Nakamura M,
Okano H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, School of Medicine, Keio University, Tokyo, 
Japan.

Murine and human iPSC-NS/PCs (induced pluripotent stem cell-derived neural
stem/progenitor cells) promote functional recovery following transplantation into
the injured spinal cord in rodents. However, for clinical applicability, it is
critical to obtain proof of the concept regarding the efficacy of grafted human
iPSC-NS/PCs (hiPSC-NS/PCs) for the repair of spinal cord injury (SCI) in a
non-human primate model. This study used a pre-evaluated "safe" hiPSC-NS/PC clone
and an adult common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) model of contusive SCI. SCI was
induced at the fifth cervical level (C5), followed by transplantation of
hiPSC-NS/PCs at 9 days after injury. Behavioral analyses were performed from the 
time of the initial injury until 12 weeks after SCI. Grafted hiPSC-NS/PCs
survived and differentiated into all three neural lineages. Furthermore,
transplantation of hiPSC-NS/PCs enhanced axonal sparing/regrowth and
angiogenesis, and prevented the demyelination after SCI compared with that in
vehicle control animals. Notably, no tumor formation occurred for at least 12
weeks after transplantation. Quantitative RT-PCR showed that mRNA expression
levels of human neurotrophic factors were significantly higher in cultured
hiPSC-NS/PCs than in human dermal fibroblasts (hDFs). Finally, behavioral tests
showed that hiPSC-NS/PCs promoted functional recovery after SCI in the common
marmoset. Taken together, these results indicate that pre-evaluated safe
hiPSC-NS/PCs are a potential source of cells for the treatment of SCI in the
clinic.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0052787 
PMCID: PMC3531369
PMID: 23300777  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

