

1620. PLoS One. 2012;7(12):e52787. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0052787. Epub 2012 Dec 27.

Pre-evaluated safe human iPSC-derived neural stem cells promote functional
recovery after spinal cord injury in common marmoset without tumorigenicity.

Kobayashi Y(1), Okada Y, Itakura G, Iwai H, Nishimura S, Yasuda A, Nori S,
Hikishima K, Konomi T, Fujiyoshi K, Tsuji O, Toyama Y, Yamanaka S, Nakamura M,
Okano H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, School of Medicine, Keio University, Tokyo, 
Japan.

Murine and human iPSC-NS/PCs (induced pluripotent stem cell-derived neural
stem/progenitor cells) promote functional recovery following transplantation into
the injured spinal cord in rodents. However, for clinical applicability, it is
critical to obtain proof of the concept regarding the efficacy of grafted human
iPSC-NS/PCs (hiPSC-NS/PCs) for the repair of spinal cord injury (SCI) in a
non-human primate model. This study used a pre-evaluated "safe" hiPSC-NS/PC clone
and an adult common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) model of contusive SCI. SCI was
induced at the fifth cervical level (C5), followed by transplantation of
hiPSC-NS/PCs at 9 days after injury. Behavioral analyses were performed from the 
time of the initial injury until 12 weeks after SCI. Grafted hiPSC-NS/PCs
survived and differentiated into all three neural lineages. Furthermore,
transplantation of hiPSC-NS/PCs enhanced axonal sparing/regrowth and
angiogenesis, and prevented the demyelination after SCI compared with that in
vehicle control animals. Notably, no tumor formation occurred for at least 12
weeks after transplantation. Quantitative RT-PCR showed that mRNA expression
levels of human neurotrophic factors were significantly higher in cultured
hiPSC-NS/PCs than in human dermal fibroblasts (hDFs). Finally, behavioral tests
showed that hiPSC-NS/PCs promoted functional recovery after SCI in the common
marmoset. Taken together, these results indicate that pre-evaluated safe
hiPSC-NS/PCs are a potential source of cells for the treatment of SCI in the
clinic.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0052787 
PMCID: PMC3531369
PMID: 23300777  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1621. PLoS One. 2012;7(12):e53357. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0053357. Epub 2012 Dec 28.

Responses of retinal ganglion cells to extracellular electrical stimulation, from
single cell to population: model-based analysis.

Tsai D(1), Chen S, Protti DA, Morley JW, Suaning GJ, Lovell NH.

Author information: 
(1)Graduate School of Biomedical Engineering, University of New South Wales,
Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.

Retinal ganglion cells (RGCs), which survive in large numbers following
neurodegenerative diseases, could be stimulated with extracellular electric
pulses to elicit artificial percepts. How do the RGCs respond to electrical
stimulation at the sub-cellular level under different stimulus configurations,
and how does this influence the whole-cell response? At the population level, why
have experiments yielded conflicting evidence regarding the extent of passing
axon activation? We addressed these questions through simulations of
morphologically and biophysically detailed computational RGC models on high
performance computing clusters. We conducted the analyses on both large-field
RGCs and small-field midget RGCs. The latter neurons are unique to primates. We
found that at the single cell level the electric potential gradient in
conjunction with neuronal element excitability, rather than the electrode center 
location per se, determined the response threshold and latency. In addition,
stimulus positioning strongly influenced the location of RGC response initiation 
and subsequent activity propagation through the cellular structure. These
findings were robust with respect to inhomogeneous tissue resistivity
perpendicular to the electrode plane. At the population level, RGC cellular
structures gave rise to low threshold hotspots, which limited axonal and
multi-cell activation with threshold stimuli. Finally, due to variations in
neuronal element excitability over space, following supra-threshold stimulation
some locations favored localized activation of multiple cells, while others
favored axonal activation of cells over extended space.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0053357 
PMCID: PMC3532448
PMID: 23285287  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

