

1622. Am J Phys Anthropol. 2013 Jan;150(1):21-8. doi: 10.1002/ajpa.22110.

Body mass growth in common marmosets: toward a model of pediatric obesity.

Tardif SD(1), Power ML, Ross CN, Rutherford JN.

Author information: 
(1)Barshop Institute for Longevity & Aging Studies, University of Texas Health
Science Center, San Antonio, 78245, USA. tardif@uthscsa.edu

While much is known about adult obesity in nonhuman primates, very little is
known regarding development of childhood adiposity. As small monkeys that are
easy to handle and have a relatively fast life history, common marmoset monkeys
(Callithrix jacchus) offer interesting opportunities to examine the question of
fat versus lean mass growth in a nonhuman primate. This article provides an
overview of our understanding of early life growth in mass in marmoset monkeys,
based primarily upon our past 20 years of research, culminating in our recent
findings on early life obesity in this species. Common marmosets display variance
in early life growth patterns that is related to both pre- and postnatal factors 
and the marmoset uterine environment is exquisitely designed to reflect resources
available for the gestation of multiple offspring, making them an interesting
model of developmental programming. We have demonstrated that obesity can be
generated in very early life in captive marmosets, with excess adiposity evident 
by one month of age, making this species a potentially valuable model in which to
study pediatric obesity and its sequelae. Birth weight is associated with
adiposity in animals vulnerable to obesity. Early life exposure to higher fat
diets enhances the chances of postweaning obesity development. However, overall
higher food consumption is also associated with obesity development at later
ages. One unexpected finding in our studies has been the relatively high body fat
percentage of neonatal (12-18%) marmosets suggesting that hypotheses regarding
the uniqueness of high human neonatal adiposity merit further examination.

Copyright © 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.22110 
PMCID: PMC3607500
PMID: 23283661  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1623. Eur J Neurosci. 2013 Mar;37(6):924-41. doi: 10.1111/ejn.12092. Epub 2012 Dec 21.

Auditory cortex of the marmoset monkey - complex responses to tones and
vocalizations under opiate anaesthesia in core and belt areas.

Rajan R(1), Dubaj V, Reser DH, Rosa MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Clayton, Vic., 3800, Australia.
Ramesh.Rajan@monash.edu

Many anaesthetics commonly used in auditory research severely depress cortical
responses, particularly in the supragranular layers of the primary auditory
cortex and in non-primary areas. This is particularly true when stimuli other
than simple tones are presented. Although awake preparations allow better
preservation of the neuronal responses, there is an inherent limitation to this
approach whenever the physiological data need to be combined with histological
reconstruction or anatomical tracing. Here we tested the efficacy of an
opiate-based anaesthetic regime to study physiological responses in the primary
auditory cortex and middle lateral belt area. Adult marmosets were anaesthetized 
using a combination of sufentanil (8 μg/kg/h, i.v.) and N2 O (70%). Unit activity
was recorded throughout the cortical layers, in response to auditory stimuli
presented binaurally. Stimuli consisted of a battery of tones presented at
different intensities, as well as two marmoset calls ('Tsik' and 'Twitter'). In
addition to robust monotonic and non-monotonic responses to tones, we found that 
the neuronal activity reflected various aspects of the calls, including 'on' and 
'off' components, and temporal fluctuations. Both phasic and tonic activities, as
well as excitatory and inhibitory components, were observed. Furthermore, a late 
component (100-250 ms post-offset) was apparent. Our results indicate that the
sufentanil/N2 O combination allows better preservation of response patterns in
both the core and belt auditory cortex, in comparison with anaesthetics usually
employed in auditory physiology. This anaesthetic regime holds promise in
enabling the physiological study of complex auditory responses in acute
preparations, combined with detailed anatomical and histological investigation.

© 2012 Federation of European Neuroscience Societies and Blackwell Publishing
Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/ejn.12092 
PMID: 23278961  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

