

1623. Eur J Neurosci. 2013 Mar;37(6):924-41. doi: 10.1111/ejn.12092. Epub 2012 Dec 21.

Auditory cortex of the marmoset monkey - complex responses to tones and
vocalizations under opiate anaesthesia in core and belt areas.

Rajan R(1), Dubaj V, Reser DH, Rosa MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Clayton, Vic., 3800, Australia.
Ramesh.Rajan@monash.edu

Many anaesthetics commonly used in auditory research severely depress cortical
responses, particularly in the supragranular layers of the primary auditory
cortex and in non-primary areas. This is particularly true when stimuli other
than simple tones are presented. Although awake preparations allow better
preservation of the neuronal responses, there is an inherent limitation to this
approach whenever the physiological data need to be combined with histological
reconstruction or anatomical tracing. Here we tested the efficacy of an
opiate-based anaesthetic regime to study physiological responses in the primary
auditory cortex and middle lateral belt area. Adult marmosets were anaesthetized 
using a combination of sufentanil (8 μg/kg/h, i.v.) and N2 O (70%). Unit activity
was recorded throughout the cortical layers, in response to auditory stimuli
presented binaurally. Stimuli consisted of a battery of tones presented at
different intensities, as well as two marmoset calls ('Tsik' and 'Twitter'). In
addition to robust monotonic and non-monotonic responses to tones, we found that 
the neuronal activity reflected various aspects of the calls, including 'on' and 
'off' components, and temporal fluctuations. Both phasic and tonic activities, as
well as excitatory and inhibitory components, were observed. Furthermore, a late 
component (100-250 ms post-offset) was apparent. Our results indicate that the
sufentanil/N2 O combination allows better preservation of response patterns in
both the core and belt auditory cortex, in comparison with anaesthetics usually
employed in auditory physiology. This anaesthetic regime holds promise in
enabling the physiological study of complex auditory responses in acute
preparations, combined with detailed anatomical and histological investigation.

© 2012 Federation of European Neuroscience Societies and Blackwell Publishing
Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/ejn.12092 
PMID: 23278961  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1624. J Neurophysiol. 2013 Mar;109(6):1638-57. doi: 10.1152/jn.00698.2012. Epub 2012
Dec 28.

Comparison of auditory-vocal interactions across multiple types of vocalizations 
in marmoset auditory cortex.

Eliades SJ(1), Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland, USA.
seliades@jhu.edu

Auditory-vocal interaction, the modulation of auditory sensory responses during
vocal production, is an important but poorly understood neurophysiological
phenomenon in nonhuman primates. This sensory-motor processing has important
behavioral implications for self-monitoring during vocal production as well as
feedback-mediated vocal control for both animals and humans. Previous studies in 
marmosets have shown that a large portion of neurons in the auditory cortex are
suppressed during self-produced vocalization but have primarily focused on a
single type of isolation vocalization. The present study expands previous
analyses to compare auditory-vocal interaction of cortical responses between
different types of vocalizations. We recorded neurons from the auditory cortex of
unrestrained marmoset monkeys with implanted electrode arrays and showed that
auditory-vocal interactions generalize across vocalization types. We found the
following: 1) Vocal suppression and excitation are a general phenomenon,
occurring for all four major vocalization types. 2) Within individual neurons,
suppression was the more general response, occurring for multiple vocalization
types, while excitation tended to be more specific to a single vocalization type.
3) A subset of neurons changed their responses between different types of
vocalization, most often from strong suppression or excitation for one
vocalization to unresponsive for another, and only rarely from suppression to
excitation. 4) Differences in neural responses between vocalization types were
weakly correlated with passive response properties, measured by playbacks of
acoustic stimuli including recorded vocalizations. These results indicate that
vocalization-induced modulation of the auditory cortex is a general phenomenon
applicable to all vocalization types, but variations within individual neurons
suggest possible vocalization-specific coding.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00698.2012 
PMCID: PMC3602939
PMID: 23274315  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

