

1636. PLoS One. 2012;7(11):e49469. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0049469. Epub 2012 Nov 14.

Efficient derivation of multipotent neural stem/progenitor cells from non-human
primate embryonic stem cells.

Shimada H(1), Okada Y, Ibata K, Ebise H, Ota S, Tomioka I, Nomura T, Maeda T,
Kohda K, Yuzaki M, Sasaki E, Nakamura M, Okano H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, School of Medicine, Keio University, Tokyo, 
Japan.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is a small New World primate that has
been used as a non-human primate model for various biomedical studies. We
previously demonstrated that transplantation of neural stem/progenitor cells
(NS/PCs) derived from mouse and human embryonic stem cells (ESCs) and induced
pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) promote functional locomotor recovery of mouse
spinal cord injury models. However, for the clinical application of such a
therapeutic approach, we need to evaluate the efficacy and safety of pluripotent 
stem cell-derived NS/PCs not only by xenotransplantation, but also
allotransplantation using non-human primate models to assess immunological
rejection and tumorigenicity. In the present study, we established a culture
method to efficiently derive NS/PCs as neurospheres from common marmoset ESCs.
Marmoset ESC-derived neurospheres could be passaged repeatedly and showed
sequential generation of neurons and astrocytes, similar to that of mouse
ESC-derived NS/PCs, and gave rise to functional neurons as indicated by calcium
imaging. Although marmoset ESC-derived NS/PCs could not differentiate into
oligodendrocytes under default culture conditions, these cells could abundantly
generate oligodendrocytes by incorporating additional signals that recapitulate
in vivo neural development. Moreover, principal component analysis of microarray 
data demonstrated that marmoset ESC-derived NS/PCs acquired similar gene
expression profiles to those of fetal brain-derived NS/PCs by repeated passaging.
Therefore, marmoset ESC-derived NS/PCs may be useful not only for accurate
evaluation by allotransplantation of NS/PCs into non-human primate models, but
are also applicable to analysis of iPSCs established from transgenic disease
model marmosets.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0049469 
PMCID: PMC3498141
PMID: 23166679  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1637. Am J Primatol. 2013 Feb;75(2):145-52. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22092. Epub 2012 Nov 15.

Alloparental responsiveness to newborns by nonreproductive, adult male, common
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Barbosa MN(1), da Silva Mota MT.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Fisiologia, Centro de Biociências, UFRN, Campus Universitário,
Natal, RN, Brazil. maricelebarbosa@yahoo.com.br

Parental care in mammals is influenced by sensory stimuli from infants, and by
changes in the hormone levels of caretakers. To determine the responsiveness to
infant cues in nonreproductive adult male common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus)
with and without previous experience in caretaking, we exposed 12 males to
newborn marmosets and assessed their cortisol plasma levels and behavioral
response. Newborn marmosets housed in transparent enclosures were placed inside
the cages of the adult male subjects. Males were exposed four times to two
different experimental conditions: (a) newborn enclosures remained closed during 
the observation period and (b) newborn enclosures were opened during the
observation period to allow direct social interaction by the adult males. Blood
samples from adult males were collected after each behavioral observation trial
to measure the levels of cortisol. The behavioral responses of adult males
exposed to the closed and open newborn enclosures showed a significant difference
only with respect to the frequency of displacements, where males moved among the 
quadrants of their own cages with greater frequency when the newborn enclosure
was sealed. Experienced males approached newborn enclosures more frequently,
spent more time in close proximity, and carried and recovered newborns more
quickly than inexperienced males. The successive exposure to newborns increased
the responsiveness in inexperienced males. The highest levels of plasma cortisol 
in adult males were recorded following periods of exposure to the sealed newborn 
enclosures. This suggests that successive exposure to newborns and previous
alloparental caregiving experience while living in family groups influences the
responsiveness of male marmosets to the sensory cues of newborns.

© 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22092 
PMID: 23161510  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

