

1649. PLoS One. 2012;7(10):e47344. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0047344. Epub 2012 Oct 9.

Neurally mediated airway constriction in human and other species: a comparative
study using precision-cut lung slices (PCLS).

Schlepütz M(1), Rieg AD, Seehase S, Spillner J, Perez-Bouza A, Braunschweig T,
Schroeder T, Bernau M, Lambermont V, Schlumbohm C, Sewald K, Autschbach R, Braun 
A, Kramer BW, Uhlig S, Martin C.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Pharmacology and Toxicology, RWTH Aachen University, Germany.

The peripheral airway innervation of the lower respiratory tract of mammals is
not completely functionally characterized. Recently, we have shown in rats that
precision-cut lung slices (PCLS) respond to electric field stimulation (EFS) and 
provide a useful model to study neural airway responses in distal airways. Since 
airway responses are known to exhibit considerable species differences, here we
examined the neural responses of PCLS prepared from mice, rats, guinea pigs,
sheep, marmosets and humans. Peripheral neurons were activated either by EFS or
by capsaicin. Bronchoconstriction in response to identical EFS conditions varied 
between species in magnitude. Frequency response curves did reveal further
species-dependent differences of nerve activation in PCLS. Atropine antagonized
the EFS-induced bronchoconstriction in human, guinea pig, sheep, rat and marmoset
PCLS, showing cholinergic responses. Capsaicin (10 µM) caused bronchoconstriction
in human (4 from 7) and guinea pig lungs only, indicating excitatory
non-adrenergic non-cholinergic responses (eNANC). However, this effect was
notably smaller in human responder (30 ± 7.1%) than in guinea pig (79 ± 5.1%)
PCLS. The transient receptor potential (TRP) channel blockers SKF96365 and
ruthenium red antagonized airway contractions after exposure to EFS or capsaicin 
in guinea pigs. In conclusion, the different species show distinct patterns of
nerve-mediated bronchoconstriction. In the most common experimental animals, i.e.
in mice and rats, these responses differ considerably from those in humans. On
the other hand, guinea pig and marmoset monkey mimic human responses well and may
thus serve as clinically relevant models to study neural airway responses.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0047344 
PMCID: PMC3467211
PMID: 23056631  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1650. PLoS One. 2012;7(10):e46371. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0046371. Epub 2012 Oct 8.

PET analysis of dopaminergic neurodegeneration in relation to immobility in the
MPTP-treated common marmoset, a model for Parkinson's disease.

Ando K(1), Obayashi S, Nagai Y, Oh-Nishi A, Minamimoto T, Higuchi M, Inoue T,
Itoh T, Suhara T.

Author information: 
(1)Central Institute for Experimental Animals, Kawasakiku, Kawasaki, Kanagawa,
Japan. ando@ciea.or.jp

BACKGROUND: Positron Emission Tomography (PET) measurement was applied to the
brain of the common marmoset, a small primate species, treated with
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP). The marmoset shows prominent
Parkinson's disease (PD) signs due to dopaminergic neural degeneration. Recently,
the transgenic marmoset (TG) carrying human PD genes is developing. For
phenotypic evaluations of TG, non-invasive PET measurement is considered to be
substantially significant. As a reference control for TG, the brain of the
MPTP-marmoset as an established and valid model was scanned by PET. Behavioral
analysis was also performed by recording locomotion of the MPTP-marmoset, as an
objective measure of PD signs.
METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: MARMOSETS RECEIVED SEVERAL MPTP REGIMENS (SINGLE 
MPTP REGIMEN: 2 mg/kg, s.c., per day for 3 consecutive days) were used for PET
measurement and behavioral observation. To measure immobility as a central PD
sign, locomotion of marmosets in their individual living cages were recorded
daily by infrared sensors. Daily locomotion counts decreased drastically after
MPTP regimens and remained diminished for several months or more. PET scan of the
brain, using [(11)C]PE2I as a ligand of the dopamine (DA) transporter, was
performed once several months after the last MPTP regimen. The mean binding
potential (BP(ND)) in the striatum (putamen and caudate) of the MPTP-marmoset
group was significantly lower than that of the MPTP-free control group (n=5 for
each group). In the MPTP-marmosets, the decrease of BP(ND) in the striatum
closely correlated with the decrease in locomotion counts (r=0.98 in putamen and 
0.91 in caudate).
CONCLUSION/SIGNIFICANCE: The present characterization of neural degeneration
using non-invasive PET imaging and of behavioral manifestation in the MPTP
marmoset mimics typical PD characteristics and can be useful in evaluating the
phenotype of TG marmosets being developed.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0046371 
PMCID: PMC3466292
PMID: 23056291  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

