

1660. J Physiol. 2012 Nov 15;590(22):5691-706. doi: 10.1113/jphysiol.2012.235010. Epub 
2012 Sep 10.

Adult-like action potential properties and abundant GABAergic synaptic responses 
in amygdala neurons from newborn marmosets.

Yamada D(1), Miyajima M, Ishibashi H, Wada K, Seki K, Sekiguchi M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Degenerative Neurological Diseases, National Institute of
Neuroscience, National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, 4-1-1 Ogawahigashi,
Kodaira, Tokyo 187-8502, Japan.

The amygdala plays an important role in the processing of emotional events. This 
information processing is altered by development, but little is known about the
development of electrophysiological properties of neurons in the amygdala. We
studied the postnatal development of electrophysiological properties of neurons
in the basolateral amygdala (BLA) of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).
Whole-cell patch-clamp recordings were obtained from BLA pyramidal neurons in
brain slices prepared from developing and adult marmosets, and
electrophysiological properties known to change during development in rats were
analysed. Two passive electrical properties of the neuronal membrane - the input 
resistance (R(in)) and the membrane time constant () - significantly decreased
with postnatal development. In contrast, the action potential only showed a
slight decrease in duration during the first month of life, whereas the amplitude
did not change after birth. Passive electrical properties and action potentials
in neurons of 4-week-old marmosets were similar to those in neurons of 4-year-old
marmosets. The development of the action potential duration was not correlated
with the development of R(in) or , whereas the development of R(in) and was
correlated with each other. Abundant spontaneous and noradrenaline-induced
GABAergic currents were present immediately after birth and did not change during
postnatal development. These results suggest that newborn infant marmoset BLA
pyramidal neurons possess relatively mature action potentials and receive
vigorous GABAergic synaptic inputs, and that they acquire adult-like
electrophysiological properties by the fourth week of life.

DOI: 10.1113/jphysiol.2012.235010 
PMCID: PMC3528985
PMID: 22966158  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1661. PLoS One. 2012;7(8):e43709. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0043709. Epub 2012 Aug 28.

LPS-induced lung inflammation in marmoset monkeys - an acute model for
anti-inflammatory drug testing.

Seehase S(1), Lauenstein HD, Schlumbohm C, Switalla S, Neuhaus V, Förster C,
Fieguth HG, Pfennig O, Fuchs E, Kaup FJ, Bleyer M, Hohlfeld JM, Braun A, Sewald
K, Knauf S.

Author information: 
(1)Airway Research, Fraunhofer Institute for Toxicology and Experimental
Medicine, Hannover, Germany.

Increasing incidence and substantial morbidity and mortality of respiratory
diseases requires the development of new human-specific anti-inflammatory and
disease-modifying therapeutics. Therefore, new predictive animal models that
closely reflect human lung pathology are needed. In the current study, a tiered
acute lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced inflammation model was established in
marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) to reflect crucial features of inflammatory
lung diseases. Firstly, in an ex vivo approach marmoset and, for the purposes of 
comparison, human precision-cut lung slices (PCLS) were stimulated with LPS in
the presence or absence of the phosphodiesterase-4 (PDE4) inhibitor roflumilast. 
Pro-inflammatory cytokines including tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) and
macrophage inflammatory protein-1 beta (MIP-1β) were measured. The corticosteroid
dexamethasone was used as treatment control. Secondly, in an in vivo approach
marmosets were pre-treated with roflumilast or dexamethasone and unilaterally
challenged with LPS. Ipsilateral bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) was conducted 18
hours after LPS challenge. BAL fluid was processed and analyzed for neutrophils, 
TNF-α, and MIP-1β. TNF-α release in marmoset PCLS correlated significantly with
human PCLS. Roflumilast treatment significantly reduced TNF-α secretion ex vivo
in both species, with comparable half maximal inhibitory concentration (IC(50)). 
LPS instillation into marmoset lungs caused a profound inflammation as shown by
neutrophilic influx and increased TNF-α and MIP-1β levels in BAL fluid. This
inflammatory response was significantly suppressed by roflumilast and
dexamethasone. The close similarity of marmoset and human lungs regarding
LPS-induced inflammation and the significant anti-inflammatory effect of approved
pharmaceuticals assess the suitability of marmoset monkeys to serve as a
promising model for studying anti-inflammatory drugs.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0043709 
PMCID: PMC3429492
PMID: 22952743  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

