

1661. PLoS One. 2012;7(8):e43709. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0043709. Epub 2012 Aug 28.

LPS-induced lung inflammation in marmoset monkeys - an acute model for
anti-inflammatory drug testing.

Seehase S(1), Lauenstein HD, Schlumbohm C, Switalla S, Neuhaus V, Förster C,
Fieguth HG, Pfennig O, Fuchs E, Kaup FJ, Bleyer M, Hohlfeld JM, Braun A, Sewald
K, Knauf S.

Author information: 
(1)Airway Research, Fraunhofer Institute for Toxicology and Experimental
Medicine, Hannover, Germany.

Increasing incidence and substantial morbidity and mortality of respiratory
diseases requires the development of new human-specific anti-inflammatory and
disease-modifying therapeutics. Therefore, new predictive animal models that
closely reflect human lung pathology are needed. In the current study, a tiered
acute lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced inflammation model was established in
marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) to reflect crucial features of inflammatory
lung diseases. Firstly, in an ex vivo approach marmoset and, for the purposes of 
comparison, human precision-cut lung slices (PCLS) were stimulated with LPS in
the presence or absence of the phosphodiesterase-4 (PDE4) inhibitor roflumilast. 
Pro-inflammatory cytokines including tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) and
macrophage inflammatory protein-1 beta (MIP-1β) were measured. The corticosteroid
dexamethasone was used as treatment control. Secondly, in an in vivo approach
marmosets were pre-treated with roflumilast or dexamethasone and unilaterally
challenged with LPS. Ipsilateral bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) was conducted 18
hours after LPS challenge. BAL fluid was processed and analyzed for neutrophils, 
TNF-α, and MIP-1β. TNF-α release in marmoset PCLS correlated significantly with
human PCLS. Roflumilast treatment significantly reduced TNF-α secretion ex vivo
in both species, with comparable half maximal inhibitory concentration (IC(50)). 
LPS instillation into marmoset lungs caused a profound inflammation as shown by
neutrophilic influx and increased TNF-α and MIP-1β levels in BAL fluid. This
inflammatory response was significantly suppressed by roflumilast and
dexamethasone. The close similarity of marmoset and human lungs regarding
LPS-induced inflammation and the significant anti-inflammatory effect of approved
pharmaceuticals assess the suitability of marmoset monkeys to serve as a
promising model for studying anti-inflammatory drugs.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0043709 
PMCID: PMC3429492
PMID: 22952743  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1662. Mol Hum Reprod. 2012 Dec;18(12):605-12. doi: 10.1093/molehr/gas032. Epub 2012 Aug
29.

False-positive antibody signals for the pluripotency factor OCT4A (POU5F1) in
testis-derived cells may lead to erroneous data and misinterpretations.

Warthemann R(1), Eildermann K, Debowski K, Behr R.

Author information: 
(1)Stem Cell Biology Unit, German Primate Center, Leibniz Institute for Primate
Research, Kellnerweg 4, D-37077 Göttingen, Germany.

Octamer-binding protein 4 (OCT4) is a key player in pluripotent embryonic stem
(ES) cells and is essential for the generation of induced pluripotent stem cells.
Recently, several reports indicated the spontaneous recovery of pluripotency in
cultured adult human testis-derived cells. This was evidenced also by the
detection of OCT4 using antibodies. However, the soundness of some data was
recently put into question. During our attempts to derive pluripotent cells from 
the common marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus) testis, we obtained inconsistent 
data which prompted us to analyze deeper the characteristics of three independent
OCT4 antibodies that were used in numerous published studies that received
greatest attention. All antibodies detected OCT4 by immunofluorescence (IF) in a 
marmoset monkey ES cell line. Two of the three OCT4 antibodies also gave robust
nuclear signals in testis-derived cells. However, the latter cells expressed no
OCT4 mRNA as revealed by quantitative RT-PCR and turned out to be mesenchymal
cells. When tested in western blot analyses, all antibodies detected
heterologously expressed marmoset monkey OCT4 protein. But, importantly, those
antibodies that resulted in non-specific signals in IF also showed additional
non-specific bands in western blots. In summary, some commercially available OCT4
antibodies result in false-positive signals which may provoke erroneous
conclusions when used in studies aiming at the generation of pluripotent cells in
vitro. We conclude that (i) antibodies must be carefully characterized before use
to prevent misleading observations and (ii) OCT4 expression must be monitored by 
a second antibody-independent method.

DOI: 10.1093/molehr/gas032 
PMCID: PMC3497886
PMID: 22933709  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

