

1681. PLoS One. 2012;7(7):e41175. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0041175. Epub 2012 Jul 31.

The natural history of class I primate alcohol dehydrogenases includes gene
duplication, gene loss, and gene conversion.

Carrigan MA(1), Uryasev O, Davis RP, Zhai L, Hurley TD, Benner SA.

Author information: 
(1)Foundation for Applied Molecular Evolution, Gainesville, Florida, United
States of America. mcarrigan@ffame.org

BACKGROUND: Gene duplication is a source of molecular innovation throughout
evolution. However, even with massive amounts of genome sequence data,
correlating gene duplication with speciation and other events in natural history 
can be difficult. This is especially true in its most interesting cases, where
rapid and multiple duplications are likely to reflect adaptation to rapidly
changing environments and life styles. This may be so for Class I of alcohol
dehydrogenases (ADH1s), where multiple duplications occurred in primate lineages 
in Old and New World monkeys (OWMs and NWMs) and hominoids.
METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: To build a preferred model for the natural
history of ADH1s, we determined the sequences of nine new ADH1 genes, finding for
the first time multiple paralogs in various prosimians (lemurs, strepsirhines).
Database mining then identified novel ADH1 paralogs in both macaque (an OWM) and 
marmoset (a NWM). These were used with the previously identified human paralogs
to resolve controversies relating to dates of duplication and gene conversion in 
the ADH1 family. Central to these controversies are differences in the topologies
of trees generated from exonic (coding) sequences and intronic sequences.
CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: We provide evidence that gene conversions are the
primary source of difference, using molecular clock dating of duplications and
analyses of microinsertions and deletions (micro-indels). The tree topology
inferred from intron sequences appear to more correctly represent the natural
history of ADH1s, with the ADH1 paralogs in platyrrhines (NWMs) and catarrhines
(OWMs and hominoids) having arisen by duplications shortly predating the
divergence of OWMs and NWMs. We also conclude that paralogs in lemurs arose
independently. Finally, we identify errors in database interpretation as the
source of controversies concerning gene conversion. These analyses provide a
model for the natural history of ADH1s that posits four ADH1 paralogs in the
ancestor of Catarrhine and Platyrrhine primates, followed by the loss of an ADH1 
paralog in the human lineage.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0041175 
PMCID: PMC3409193
PMID: 22859968  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1682. J Neurosci. 2012 Aug 1;32(31):10737-48. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.3448-11.2012.

Neural correlates of the lombard effect in primate auditory cortex.

Eliades SJ(1), Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21025, USA.

Speaking is a sensory-motor process that involves constant self-monitoring to
ensure accurate vocal production. Self-monitoring of vocal feedback allows rapid 
adjustment to correct perceived differences between intended and produced
vocalizations. One important behavior in vocal feedback control is a compensatory
increase in vocal intensity in response to noise masking during vocal production,
commonly referred to as the Lombard effect. This behavior requires mechanisms for
continuously monitoring auditory feedback during speaking. However, the
underlying neural mechanisms are poorly understood. Here we show that when
marmoset monkeys vocalize in the presence of masking noise that disrupts vocal
feedback, the compensatory increase in vocal intensity is accompanied by a shift 
in auditory cortex activity toward neural response patterns seen during
vocalizations under normal feedback condition. Furthermore, we show that neural
activity in auditory cortex during a vocalization phrase predicts vocal intensity
compensation in subsequent phrases. These observations demonstrate that the
auditory cortex participates in self-monitoring during the Lombard effect, and
may play a role in the compensation of noise masking during feedback-mediated
vocal control.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.3448-11.2012 
PMCID: PMC3752069
PMID: 22855821  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

