

1686. Behav Brain Res. 2012 Dec 1;235(2):113-23. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2012.07.033. Epub
2012 Jul 28.

Remote long-term registrations of sleep-wake rhythms, core body temperature and
activity in marmoset monkeys.

Hoffmann K(1), Coolen A, Schlumbohm C, Meerlo P, Fuchs E.

Author information: 
(1)Clinical Neurobiology Laboratory, German Primate Center, Göttingen, Germany.
kplassmann@cnl-dpz.de

Initial studies in the day active marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus) indicate
that the sleep-wake cycle of these non-human primates resembles that of humans
and therefore conceivably represent an appropriate model for human sleep. The
methods currently employed for sleep studies in marmosets are limited. The
objective of this study was to employ and validate the use of specific remote
monitoring system technologies that enable accurate long-term recordings of
sleep-wake rhythms and the closely related rhythms of core body temperature (CBT)
and locomotor activity in unrestrained group-housed marmosets. Additionally, a
pilot sleep deprivation (SD) study was performed to test the recording systems in
an applied experimental setup. Our results show that marmosets typically exhibit 
a monophasic sleep pattern with cyclical alternations between NREM and REM sleep.
CBT displays a pronounced daily rhythm and locomotor activity is primarily
restricted to the light phase. SD caused an immediate increase in NREM sleep time
and EEG slow-wave activity as well as a delayed REM sleep rebound that did not
fully compensate for REM sleep that had been lost during SD. In conclusion, the
combination of two innovative technical approaches allows for simultaneous
measurements of CBT, sleep cycles and activity in multiple subjects. The
employment of these systems represents a significant refinement in terms of
animal welfare and will enable many future applications and longitudinal studies 
of circadian rhythms in marmosets.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2012.07.033 
PMID: 22850608  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1687. Brain Behav Evol. 2012;80(1):26-40. doi: 10.1159/000338014. Epub 2012 Jul 27.

Can we measure brain efficiency? An empirical test with common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus).

Strasser A(1), Burkart JM.

Author information: 
(1)Anthropological Institute and Museum, University of Zürich, Zürich,
Switzerland. drewstrasser@aim.uzh.ch

Various measures of brain size correlate with cognitive performance; however, the
fit is not perfect, which bears the question of whether brains also vary in
efficiency. Such variation could be expected if a species faces constraints on
brain enlargement, for example due to the impossibility of slowing down life
history as a consequence of predator pressure, while simultaneously experiencing 
selective benefits from enhanced cognitive ability related to particular
ecological or social conditions. Arguably, this applies to callitrichid monkeys
and would lead to the prediction that their relatively small brains are
particularly efficient in comparison to their sister taxa, Cebus. This study
investigated whether callitrichids' cognitive performance is better than would be
expected given their brain size rather than comparing absolute performance
between the taxa. As a measure of cognitive performance, we used the reversal
learning paradigm, which is reliably and closely associated with brain size
across primate taxa, and assessed performance in this paradigm (transfer index)
in 14 common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) as representatives of the
callitrichids. These marmosets were found to show higher performance than would
be expected for their brain size, and this relative performance was also higher
than the relative performance in capuchin monkeys. We outline how these effects
may be due to the cooperative breeding system of the callitrichids, particularly 
the enhancement of behavioural and cognitive propensities associated with shared 
care and provisioning.

Copyright © 2012 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000338014 
PMID: 22846401  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

