

1687. Brain Behav Evol. 2012;80(1):26-40. doi: 10.1159/000338014. Epub 2012 Jul 27.

Can we measure brain efficiency? An empirical test with common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus).

Strasser A(1), Burkart JM.

Author information: 
(1)Anthropological Institute and Museum, University of Zürich, Zürich,
Switzerland. drewstrasser@aim.uzh.ch

Various measures of brain size correlate with cognitive performance; however, the
fit is not perfect, which bears the question of whether brains also vary in
efficiency. Such variation could be expected if a species faces constraints on
brain enlargement, for example due to the impossibility of slowing down life
history as a consequence of predator pressure, while simultaneously experiencing 
selective benefits from enhanced cognitive ability related to particular
ecological or social conditions. Arguably, this applies to callitrichid monkeys
and would lead to the prediction that their relatively small brains are
particularly efficient in comparison to their sister taxa, Cebus. This study
investigated whether callitrichids' cognitive performance is better than would be
expected given their brain size rather than comparing absolute performance
between the taxa. As a measure of cognitive performance, we used the reversal
learning paradigm, which is reliably and closely associated with brain size
across primate taxa, and assessed performance in this paradigm (transfer index)
in 14 common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) as representatives of the
callitrichids. These marmosets were found to show higher performance than would
be expected for their brain size, and this relative performance was also higher
than the relative performance in capuchin monkeys. We outline how these effects
may be due to the cooperative breeding system of the callitrichids, particularly 
the enhancement of behavioural and cognitive propensities associated with shared 
care and provisioning.

Copyright © 2012 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000338014 
PMID: 22846401  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1688. J Immunol Methods. 2012 Oct 31;384(1-2):81-91. doi: 10.1016/j.jim.2012.07.012.
Epub 2012 Jul 25.

A new method for quantitative analysis of the T cell receptor V region
repertoires in healthy common marmosets by microplate hybridization assay.

Kitaura K(1), Fujii Y, Matsutani T, Shirai K, Suzuki S, Takasaki T, Shimada S,
Kametani Y, Shiina T, Takabayashi S, Katoh H, Ogasawara K, Kurane I, Suzuki R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Rheumatology and Clinical Immunology, Clinical Research Center
for Allergy and Rheumatology, Sagamihra National Hospital, National Hospital
Organization, Kanagawa, Japan.

The common marmoset, Callithrix jacchus, is one of the smallest primates and is
increasingly used for an experimental nonhuman primate model in many research
fields. Analysis of T cell receptor (TCR) repertoires is a powerful tool to
investigate T cell immunity in terms of antigen specificity and variability of
TCR expression. However, monoclonal antibodies specific for many TCR Vα or Vβ
chains have not been created. We have recently identified a large number of TCRα 
chain variable (TRAV) and TCRβ chain variable (TRBV) sequences from a cDNA
library of common marmosets. The purpose of this study is to develop a new method
for analysis of TCR repertoires in the common marmoset using this sequence
information. This method is based on a microplate hybridization technique using
32 TRAV-specific and 32 TRBV-specific oligoprobes following an adaptor-ligation
PCR. This enables the easy quantitation of the respective TRAV and TRBV
expression levels. No cross-hybridization among specific-oligoprobes and very low
variances in repeated measures of the same samples was found, demonstrating high 
specificity and reproducibility. Furthermore, this method was validated by an
antihuman Vβ23 antibody which specifically bound to marmoset Vβ23. Using this
method, we analyzed TCR repertoires from various tissue samples (PBMCs, spleen,
lymph node and thymus) and isolated T cell subpopulations (CD4+CD8+, CD4+CD8− and
CD4−CD8+) from the thymus of 10 common marmosets. Neither tissue-specific nor T
cell subpopulation-specific differences was found in TRAV and TRBV repertoires.
These results suggest that, unlike mice, TCR repertoires in the common marmoset
are not affected by endogenous superantigens and are conserved among individuals,
among tissues, and among T cell subpopulations. Thus, TCR repertoire analysis
with high specificity and reproducibility is a very useful technique, with the
potential to replace flow cytometric analysis using a panel of TRV-specific
antibodies, many of which remain unavailable.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jim.2012.07.012 
PMID: 22841578  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

