

1709. Psychoneuroendocrinology. 2013 Jan;38(1):145-54. doi:
10.1016/j.psyneuen.2012.05.011. Epub 2012 Jun 21.

Chronic systemic administration of serotonergic ligands flibanserin and 8-OH-DPAT
enhance HPA axis responses to restraint in female marmosets.

Aubert Y(1), Bohl MA, Lange JR, Diol NR, Allers KA, Sommer B, Datson NA, Abbott
DH.

Author information: 
(1)Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin-Madison,
WI, USA. auberty@lacdr.leidenuniv.nl

BACKGROUND: Flibanserin, a novel serotonin (5-HT)(1A) agonist and 5-HT(2A)
antagonist, has been shown to increase sexual desire and reduce distress in women
with Hypoactive Sexual Desire Disorder (HSDD). In marmoset monkeys, flibanserin
has demonstrated pro-social effects on male-female pairmates, while the classic
5-HT(1A) agonist 8-OH-DPAT suppresses female sexual behavior and increases
aggressive interactions between pairmates. Activation of 5-HT(1A) and 5-HT(2A)
receptors is known to stimulate the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis.
This study aims to characterize the effects of repeated flibanserin and 8-OH-DPAT
administration on the marmoset HPA axis and to elucidate endocrine correlates of 
altered marmoset pair behavior.
METHODS: Adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) and cortisol were examined at
baseline and during 5-HT(1A) agonist and restraint challenges in 8 female
marmoset monkeys receiving daily flibanserin (15mg/kg) and an additional 8 female
marmosets receiving 8-OH-DPAT (0.1mg/kg) for 15-16weeks. Corresponding vehicle
treatments were administered in a counterbalanced, within-subject design. All
females were housed in stable male-female pairs. Treatment-induced changes in
ACTH and cortisol levels were correlated with previously assessed marmoset pair
behavior.
RESULTS: While morning basal cortisol levels and HPA responses to a 5-HT(1A)
agonist challenge were not altered by chronic flibanserin or 8-OH-DPAT, both
treatments increased the responsiveness of the marmoset HPA axis to restraint.
Enhanced ACTH responses to restraint correlated with reduced sexual receptivity
and increased aggression in 8-OH-DPAT-, but not in flibanserin-treated female
marmosets.
CONCLUSIONS: Unaltered HPA responses to a 5-HT(1A) agonist challenge after
chronic flibanserin and 8-OH-DPAT treatments indicate little or no
de-sensitization of the HPA axis to repeated 5-HT(1A) manipulation. Chronic
8-OH-DPAT, but not flibanserin, leads to aggravated ACTH responses to stress that
may contribute to anti-sexual and anti-social behavior between 8-OH-DPAT-treated 
females and their male pairmates. Despite similar flibanserin and 8-OH-DPAT
induced ACTH responses to restraint stress, flibanserin-treated females show
unchanged cortisol profiles. This is possibly due to flibanserin's regional
selectivity in 5-HT(1A) activation and concurrent 5-HT(2A) inhibition. The
contrasting restraint-related cortisol responses emulate contrasting behavioral
phenotypes of diminished pair-bond of 8-OH-DPAT-treated females compared to the
more affiliative pair-bond of flibanserin-treated females.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.psyneuen.2012.05.011 
PMID: 22727480  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1710. Ann Anat. 2013 Jan;195(1):32-8. doi: 10.1016/j.aanat.2012.04.005. Epub 2012 May
17.

Mediodorsal thalamic nucleus receives a direct retinal input in marmoset monkey
(Callithrix jacchus): a subunit B cholera toxin study.

de Sousa TB(1), de Santana MA, Silva Ade M, Guzen FP, Oliveira FG, Cavalcante JC,
Cavalcante Jde S, Costa MS, Nascimento ES Jr.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Morphology/Laboratory of Neuroanatomy, Biosciences Center,
Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte, RN, Brazil. expeditojr@cb.ufrn.br

The mediodorsal thalamic nucleus is a prominent nucleus in the thalamus,
positioned lateral to the midline nuclei and medial to the intralaminar thalamic 
complex in the dorsal thalamus. Several studies identify the mediodorsal thalamic
nucleus as a key structure in learning and memory, as well as in emotional
mechanisms and alertness due to reciprocal connections with the limbic system and
prefrontal cortex. Fibers from the retina to the mediodorsal thalamic nucleus
have recently been described for the first time in a crepuscular rodent,
suggesting a possible regulation of the mediodorsal thalamic nucleus by visual
activity. The present study shows retinal afferents in the mediodorsal thalamic
nucleus of a new world primate, the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), using B
subunit of cholera toxin (CTb) as an anterograde tracer. A small population of
labeled retinofugal axonal arborizations is consistently labeled in small domains
of the medial and lateral periphery of the caudal half of the mediodorsal
nucleus. Retinal projections in the mediodorsal thalamic nucleus are exclusively 
contralateral and the morphology of the afferent endings was examined. Although
the functional significance of this projection remains unknown, this
retina-mediodorsal thalamic nucleus pathway may be involved in a wide possibility
of functional implications.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.aanat.2012.04.005 
PMID: 22726524  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

