

1717. J Neurosci. 2012 Jun 6;32(23):7881-94. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.4832-11.2012.

Color blobs in cortical areas V1 and V2 of the new world monkey Callithrix
jacchus, revealed by non-differential optical imaging.

Valverde Salzmann MF(1), Bartels A, Logothetis NK, Schüz A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology of Cognitive Processes, Max Planck Institute for
Biological Cybernetics, D-72076 Tübingen, Germany.
matthias.valverde@tuebingen.mpg.de

Color vision is reserved to only few mammals, such as Old World monkeys and
humans. Most Old World monkeys are trichromats. Among them, macaques were shown
to exhibit functional domains of color-selectivity, in areas V1 and V2 of the
visual cortex. Such color domains have not yet been shown in New World monkeys.
In marmosets a sex-linked dichotomy results in dichromatic and trichromatic
genotypes, rendering most male marmosets color-blind. Here we used trichromatic
female marmosets to examine the intrinsic signal response in V1 and V2 to
chromatic and achromatic stimuli, using optical imaging. To activate the
subsystems individually, we used spatially homogeneous isoluminant color opponent
(red/green, blue/yellow) and hue versus achromatic flicker (red/gray, green/gray,
blue/gray, yellow/gray), as well as achromatic luminance flicker. In contrast to 
previous optical imaging studies in marmosets, we find clearly segregated color
domains, similar to those seen in macaques. Red/green and red/gray flicker were
found to be the appropriate stimulus for revealing color domains in
single-condition maps. Blue/gray and blue/yellow flicker stimuli resulted in
faint patch-patterns. A recently described multimodal vessel mapping approach
allowed for an accurate alignment of the functional and anatomical datasets.
Color domains were tightly colocalized with cytochrome oxidase blobs in V1 and
with thin stripes in V2. Thus, our findings are in accord with 2-Deoxy-D-glucose 
studies performed in V1 of macaques and studies on color representation in V2.
Our results suggest a similar organization of early cortical color processing in 
trichromats of both Old World and New World monkeys.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.4832-11.2012 
PMCID: PMC6620961
PMID: 22674264  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1718. Am J Primatol. 2012 Jul;74(7):613-21. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22013.

The effects of group size and reproductive status on vigilance in captive
Callithrix jacchus.

Gosselin-Ildari AD(1), Koenig A.

Author information: 
(1)Interdepartmental Doctoral Program in Anthropological Sciences, Stony Brook
University, Stony Brook, NY 11794-4363, USA.
ashley.gosselin-ildari@stonybrook.edu

Previous work on mammals and birds has often demonstrated a negative relationship
between group size and individual vigilance. However, this relationship has
received only weak support in nonhuman primates. This result may be due to the
failure to distinguish different forms of vigilance such as antipredatory
vigilance and social monitoring. Here, we tested the effects of group size,
reproductive status (breeding vs. nonbreeding), and sex on antipredatory
vigilance and social monitoring in captive common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).
Behavioral observations using one-zero sampling were conducted on adult members
of three captive groups of small, medium, and large size. Data were analyzed
using a series of general linear models (GLMs) analyses of covariance (ANCOVAs). 
We found an overall negative group size effect on antipredatory vigilance and
that breeders, especially breeding males, were significantly more vigilant than
nonbreeders. Conversely, we found that social monitoring increased with group
size. Unlike the results for antipredatory vigilance, neither breeders and
nonbreeders nor males and females differed in their amounts of social monitoring.
However, the effect of group size appeared to differ for nonbreeding males
compared to all other adults. Our results generally support the idea that
individuals in larger groups are safer with breeding males likely playing a
prominent role in protection from predation. The increase in social monitoring
may be related to increased reproductive competition with the presence of adult
offspring, but future studies need to clarify the target of social monitoring in 
both breeders and nonbreeders. Overall, the study underlines the importance of
distinguishing different forms of vigilance and other factors as they may
confound the effects of group size on antipredatory vigilance.

© 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22013 
PMID: 22644577  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

