

1720. Islets. 2012 Mar-Apr;4(2):123-9. doi: 10.4161/isl.19254. Epub 2012 Mar 1.

Islet microarchitecture and glucose transporter expression of the pancreas of the
marmoset monkey display similarities to the human.

Plentz RR(1), Palagani V, Wiedemann A, Diekmann U, Glage S, Naujok O, Jörns A,
Müller T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Hannover Medical School, Hannover, Germany.

The common marmoset New World monkey (Callithrix jacchus), is a primate model
with great potential for scientific research, including research on diabetes.
However, in opposite to Rhesus and Java monkeys (Macaca mulatta and Macaca
fascicularis) little is known about the marmosets islet microarchitecture,
glucose transporter and pancreatic marker gene expression. In this work we
analyze differences and similarities in size, shape, cellular composition and
intra-islet topography between the common marmoset and the human endocrine
pancreas. Different sized, circular and a-circular shaped islets of the common
marmoset and human display α-cells in the whole islet organ leading to a
ribbon-like islet type. The number of islets was significantly higher in the
common marmoset compared with humans. However, the area of insulin-producing
cells was significantly higher in the human pancreas. Intra-islet distribution
pattern of δ- and β-cells was similar in both species. The morphology of the
exocrine pancreas regarding acinar and ductal cells was quite similar as
confirmed by ultrastructural analysis. Additionally the ultrastructure of
secretory granules from α-, δ- and β-cells of human and non-human primate
pancreas showed the same characteristics. Molecular analysis showed the presence 
of endocrine pancreatic marker genes like PMCA2, NCX1, SUR1, KIR6.2, MAFA, NGN3
and PDX1 also expressed in the human. For the first time we could show presence
of Glut 5 and 9 transporters in addition to the low abundance transporter Glut2
and the highly expressed Glut1 glucose transporter. We propose that Callithrix
jacchus displays a new animal model for diabetes research and regenerative
medicine.

DOI: 10.4161/isl.19254 
PMID: 22627676  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1721. J Neurophysiol. 2012 Aug 1;108(3):810-26. doi: 10.1152/jn.00500.2011. Epub 2012
May 16.

Level dependence of spatial processing in the primate auditory cortex.

Zhou Y(1), Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
School of Medicine, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland 21205-2195,
USA. zhouyi@jhu.edu

Sound localization in both humans and monkeys is tolerant to changes in sound
levels. The underlying neural mechanism, however, is not well understood. This
study reports the level dependence of individual neurons' spatial receptive
fields (SRFs) in the primary auditory cortex (A1) and the adjacent caudal field
in awake marmoset monkeys. We found that most neurons' excitatory SRF components 
were spatially confined in response to broadband noise stimuli delivered from the
upper frontal sound field. Approximately half the recorded neurons exhibited
little change in spatial tuning width over a ~20-dB change in sound level,
whereas the remaining neurons showed either expansion or contraction in their
tuning widths. Increased sound levels did not alter the percent distribution of
tuning width for neurons collected in either cortical field. The
population-averaged responses remained tuned between 30- and 80-dB sound pressure
levels for neuronal groups preferring contralateral, midline, and ipsilateral
locations. We further investigated the spatial extent and level dependence of the
suppressive component of SRFs using a pair of sequentially presented stimuli.
Forward suppression was observed when the stimuli were delivered from "far"
locations, distant to the excitatory center of an SRF. In contrast to spatially
confined excitation, the strength of suppression typically increased with
stimulus level at both the excitatory center and far regions of an SRF. These
findings indicate that although the spatial tuning of individual neurons varied
with stimulus levels, their ensemble responses were level tolerant. Widespread
spatial suppression may play an important role in limiting the sizes of SRFs at
high sound levels in the auditory cortex.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00500.2011 
PMCID: PMC3424089
PMID: 22592309  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

