

1730. Am J Primatol. 2012 Sep;74(9):819-27. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22032. Epub 2012 May 1.

The influence of sex and relatedness on stress response in common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus).

Galvão-Coelho NL(1), Silva HP, De Sousa MB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, 
Rio Grande do Norte, Brazil. galvaonic@hotmail.com

Research in stress physiology has demonstrated the benefits of receiving social
support during stressful conditions. However, recent data have shown that the
efficacy of social support in buffering physiological and behavioral responses to
stressor agents depends on species, sex, and relatedness among animals. This
study investigated whether different kinds of social support (presence of same
sex related or nonrelated conspecifics) have the same effect on hormonal (fecal
cortisol levels) and behavioral responses (agonistic: scent-marking and
individual piloerection; anxiety: locomotion; tension-reducing: autogrooming,
allogrooming, and body contact). We used adult male and female isosexual dyads of
Callithrix jacchus, a small Neotropical primate from the Callitrichidae family,
widely used in the study of stress and related diseases. Following a 28-day
baseline phase, dyads faced three challenging situations (phase 1: dyads were
moved together from the baseline cage to a similar new cage; phase 2: each dyad
member was moved alone to a new cage; and phase 3: dyad members were reunited in 
the same baseline cage). Type of social support was found to influence the
response to stressors differently for each sex. Related male dyads did not change
their hormonal or behavioral profile over the three experimental phases, when
compared to the baseline phase. For nonrelated male dyads, social support
buffered hormonal but not behavioral response. For females, the social support
offered by a related and nonrelated animal, does not seem to buffer the stress
response, as shown by correlations between agonistic behaviors versus cortisol
and locomotion during all three experimental phases and a significant increase in
fecal cortisol levels during phases 2 and 3, when compared with baseline levels. 
The results only partially support the buffering model theory and corroborate
other studies reporting that the benefits of social support during a period of
crisis arise only when it is adaptive for that species.

© 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22032 
PMID: 22549557  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1731. Neuroimage. 2012 Aug 1;62(1):408-17. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2012.04.030. Epub 
2012 Apr 24.

Coupling and robustness of intra-cortical vascular territories.

Guibert R(1), Fonta C, Risser L, Plouraboué F.

Author information: 
(1)Institut de Mécanique des Fluides, UMR 5502, INPT-CNRS-UPS, 1 Allée du
Professeur Camille Soula, 31400 Toulouse, France. romainguibert@gmail.com

Vascular domains have been described as being coupled to neuronal functional
units enabling dynamic blood supply to the cerebral cyto-architecture. Recent
experiments have shown that penetrating arterioles of the grey matter are the
building blocks for such units. Nevertheless, vascular territories are still
poorly known, as the collection and analysis of large three-dimensional
micro-vascular networks are difficult. By using an exhaustive reconstruction of
the micro-vascular network in an 18 mm(3) volume of marmoset cerebral cortex, we 
numerically computed the blood flow in each blood vessel. We thus defined
arterial and venular territories and examined their overlap. A large part of the 
intracortical vascular network was found to be supplied by several arteries and
drained by several venules. We quantified this multiple potential to compensate
for deficiencies by introducing a new robustness parameter. Robustness proved to 
be positively correlated with cortical depth and a systematic investigation of
coupling maps indicated local patterns of overlap between neighbouring arteries
and neighbouring venules. However, arterio-venular coupling did not have a
spatial pattern of overlap but showed locally preferential functional coupling,
especially of one artery with two venules, supporting the notion of vascular
units. We concluded that intra-cortical perfusion in the primate was
characterised by both very narrow functional beds and a large capacity for
compensatory redistribution, far beyond the nearest neighbour collaterals.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2012.04.030 
PMID: 22548806  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

