

1736. Genome Biol Evol. 2012;4(5):641-57. doi: 10.1093/gbe/evs035. Epub 2012 Apr 13.

Identification and characterization of lineage-specific highly conserved
noncoding sequences in Mammalian genomes.

Takahashi M(1), Saitou N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, School of Life Science, Graduate University for
Advanced Studies, Japan.

Vertebrate genome comparisons revealed that there are highly conserved noncoding 
sequences (HCNSs) among a wide range of species and many of which contain
regulatory elements. However, recently emerged sequences conserved in specific
lineages have not been well studied. Toward this end, we identified 8,198 primate
and 21,128 specific HCNSs as representative ones among mammals from
human-marmoset and mouse-rat comparisons, respectively. Derived allele frequency 
analysis of primate-specific HCNSs showed that these HCNSs were under purifying
selection, indicating that they may harbor important functions. We selected the
top 1,000 largest HCNSs and compared the lineage-specific HCNS-flanking genes
(LHF genes) with ultraconserved element (UCE)-flanking genes. Interestingly, the 
majority of LHF genes were different from UCE-flanking genes. This
lineage-specific set of LHF genes was more enriched in protein-binding function. 
Conversely, the number of LHF genes that were also shared by UCEs was small but
significantly larger than random expectation, and many of these genes were
involved in anatomical development as transcriptional regulators, suggesting that
certain groups of genes preferentially recruit new HCNSs in addition to old HCNSs
that are conserved among vertebrates. This group of LHF genes might be involved
in the various levels of lineage-specific evolution among vertebrates, mammals,
primates, and rodents. If so, the emergence of HCNSs in and around these two
groups of LHF genes developed lineage-specific characteristics. Our results
provide new insight into lineage-specific evolution through interactions between 
HCNSs and their LHF genes.

DOI: 10.1093/gbe/evs035 
PMCID: PMC3381673
PMID: 22505575  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1737. Biol Psychiatry. 2012 Aug 15;72(4):266-72. doi: 10.1016/j.biopsych.2012.03.007.
Epub 2012 Apr 12.

Lesions of ventrolateral prefrontal or anterior orbitofrontal cortex in primates 
heighten negative emotion.

Agustín-Pavón C(1), Braesicke K, Shiba Y, Santangelo AM, Mikheenko Y, Cockroft G,
Asma F, Clarke H, Man MS, Roberts AC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Development and Neuroscience, University of
Cambridge, Cambridge, United Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: Heightened fear and anxiety are core symptoms of a variety of
neuropsychiatric disorders. They are associated with structural and activity
changes throughout neural circuitry that includes the ventral and medial
prefrontal cortices (PFC), the amygdala, and hippocampus. Although the
contributions of the medial PFC, amygdala, and hippocampus to fear and anxiety
have been studied extensively with animal models, the selective roles of the
ventral PFC-including the ventrolateral prefrontal cortex (vlPFC) and
orbitofrontal cortex-are poorly understood.
METHODS: We investigated the effects of selective excitotoxic lesions of either
the vlPFC or anterior orbitofrontal cortex (antOFC) on anxious behavior and
Pavlovian conditioned autonomic and behavioral fear responses in the New World
primate, the common marmoset.
RESULTS: Both vlPFC and antOFC lesions resulted in stronger, less adaptable
conditioned fear responses. They also heightened the anxiety responses of a
marmoset to a human intruder. In contrast, only a lesion of the vlPFC affected
the coping style that a marmoset displayed in the presence of the human intruder,
increasing the likelihood of proactive mobbing.
CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that both the antOFC and vlPFC can
downregulate fear and anxiety and, together, provide necessary but independent
contributions to the top-down control of negative emotion.

Copyright © 2012 Society of Biological Psychiatry. Published by Elsevier Inc. All
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopsych.2012.03.007 
PMID: 22502990  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

