

1741. PLoS One. 2012;7(3):e34383. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0034383. Epub 2012 Mar 28.

The early postnatal nonhuman primate neocortex contains self-renewing multipotent
neural progenitor cells.

Homman-Ludiye J(1), Merson TD, Bourne JA.

Author information: 
(1)Australian Regenerative Medicine Institute, Monash University, Clayton,
Victoria, Australia.

The postnatal neocortex has traditionally been considered a non-neurogenic
region, under non-pathological conditions. A few studies suggest, however, that a
small subpopulation of neural cells born during postnatal life can differentiate 
into neurons that take up residence within the neocortex, implying that postnatal
neurogenesis could occur in this region, albeit at a low level. Evidence to
support this hypothesis remains controversial while the source of putative neural
progenitors responsible for generating new neurons in the postnatal neocortex is 
unknown. Here we report the identification of self-renewing multipotent neural
progenitor cells (NPCs) derived from the postnatal day 14 (PD14) marmoset monkey 
primary visual cortex (V1, striate cortex). While neuronal maturation within V1
is well advanced by PD14, we observed cells throughout this region that
co-expressed Sox2 and Ki67, defining a population of resident proliferating
progenitor cells. When cultured at low density in the presence of epidermal
growth factor (EGF) and/or fibroblast growth factor 2 (FGF-2), dissociated V1
tissue gave rise to multipotent neurospheres that exhibited the ability to
differentiate into neurons, oligodendrocytes and astrocytes. While the capacity
to generate neurones and oligodendrocytes was not observed beyond the third
passage, astrocyte-restricted neurospheres could be maintained for up to 6
passages. This study provides the first direct evidence for the existence of
multipotent NPCs within the postnatal neocortex of the nonhuman primate. The
potential contribution of neocortical NPCs to neural repair following injury
raises exciting new possibilities for the field of regenerative medicine.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0034383 
PMCID: PMC3314641
PMID: 22470566  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1742. J Comp Psychol. 2012 Aug;126(3):279-87. doi: 10.1037/a0026613. Epub 2012 Apr 2.

Characteristics of serial order learning in common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus).

Koba R(1), Takemoto A, Miwa M, Nakamura K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Behavioral and Brain Sciences, Primate Research Institute, Kyoto
University, Inuyama, Aichi, Japan.

We investigated the characteristics of serial order learning in common marmosets 
(Callithrix jacchus). Five marmosets were trained in a sequential responding task
in which they were required to touch four graphic patterns in a given order
(A→B→C→D) to obtain a reward. All five marmosets learned the task with over 65%
accuracy. Shuffling the positions of B, C, and D immediately after the marmoset
had correctly identified and selected the first stimulus (A) either decreased
accuracy or lengthened response latency for the second stimulus (B). These
results suggest that the marmosets planned the response to the second stimulus
before they touched the first stimulus. In addition, when we presented a pair of 
stimuli (AB, AC, AD, BC, BD, and CD pairs), the marmosets responded to the
stimuli in the pair in the appropriate order, according to the learned order
(A→B→C→D). The analyses of first and second response latencies clearly
demonstrated both the first-item and missing-item effects in task performance.
Our data provide direct evidence that marmosets can learn the relative order of
the four stimuli in a sequential responding task.
