

1754. BMC Genomics. 2012 Mar 19;13:98. doi: 10.1186/1471-2164-13-98.

Quantitative molecular assessment of chimerism across tissues in marmosets and
tamarins.

Sweeney CG(1), Curran E, Westmoreland SV, Mansfield KG, Vallender EJ.

Author information: 
(1)New England Primate Research Center, Harvard Medical School, One Pine Hill
Drive, Southborough, MA 01772, USA.

BACKGROUND: Marmosets are playing an increasingly large and important role in
biomedical research. They share genetic, anatomical, and physiological
similarities with humans and other primate model species, but their smaller
sizes, reproductive efficiency, and amenability to genetic manipulation offer an 
added practicality. While their unique biology can be exploited to provide
insights into disease and function, it is also important that researchers are
aware of the differences that exist between marmosets and other species. The New 
World monkey family Callitrichidae, containing both marmoset and tamarin species,
typically produces dizygotic twins that show chimerism in the blood and other
cells from the hematopoietic lineage. Recently, a study extended these findings
to identify chimerism in many tissues, including somatic tissues from other
lineages and germ cells. This has raised the intriguing possibility that
chimerism may play an increasingly pervasive role in marmoset biology, ranging
from natural behavioral implications to increased variability and complexity in
biomedical studies.
RESULTS: Using a quantitative PCR based methodology, Y-chromosomes can be
reliably detected in the females with male fraternal twins allowing for a
relative quantification of chimerism levels between individuals and tissues. With
this approach in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) and cotton-top tamarins
(Saguinus oedipus), chimerism was detected across a broad array of tissues.
Chimerism levels were significantly higher in tissues primarily derived from the 
hematopoietic lineage, while they were lower, though still detectable, in tissues
with other origins. Interestingly, animals with a characteristic marmoset wasting
disease show higher levels of chimerism in those tissues affected. Fibroblast
cell lines from chimeric individuals, however, are not found to be chimeric
themselves.
CONCLUSION: Taken together, the levels of chimerism in tissues of different
origins coupled with other lines of evidence suggest that indeed only
hematopoietic cell lineages are chimeric in callitrichids. The chimerism detected
in other tissues is likely the result of blood or lymphocytic infiltration. Using
molecular methods to detect chimerism in a tissue sample seems to have allowed a 
substantial increase in the ability to detect these minor cell populations.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2164-13-98 
PMCID: PMC3337283
PMID: 22429831  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1755. Brain Nerve. 2012 Mar;64(3):245-54.

[Hepatocyte growth factor therapy for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis].

[Article in Japanese]

Aoki M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Tohoku University School of Medicine, Japan.

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is an adult-onset neurodegenerative disorder 
characterized by the death of upper and lower motor neurons. Approximately 20% of
familial ALS cases are caused by mutations in the superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1)
gene. We generated rats that express a human SOD1 transgene with two different
ALS-associated mutations and found that these rats develop remarkable motor
neuron degeneration and paralysis. This rat model, because of the larger size of 
the animals as compared to ALS-affected mice, will facilitate studies involving
manipulation of the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) (e.g., implantation of intrathecal 
catheters for chronic therapeutic studies; CSF sampling) or spinal cord (e.g.,
direct administration of viral- and cell-mediated therapies). The hepatocyte
growth factor (HGF) is one of the most potent survival-promoting factors for
motor neurons. To examine its protective effect on motor neurons and its
therapeutic potential, we administered human recombinant HGF (hrHGF) to the
transgenic rats, by continuous intrathecal delivery, for 4 weeks from the onset
of paralysis. Intrathecal administration of hrHGF attenuated motor neuron
degeneration and prolonged the duration of the disease 62.7% compared with the
contrast group. Our results indicated the therapeutic efficacy of continuous
intrathecal administration of hrHGF in ALS rats. To explore the potential use of 
this treatment strategy in humans, we induced a contusive cervical spinal cord
injury in the common marmoset, a primate, and then administered hrHGF
intrathecally. The intrathecal administration of hrHGF promoted functional
recovery. These projects have been supported by the "Super Special Consortium for
Supporting the Development of Cutting-edge Medical Care" (tokku), a special
program organized by the Cabinet Office of the Japanese government (research
representative: Hideyuki Okano, M.D., Ph.D., Professor at Keio University).


PMID: 22402718  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

