

176. Int J Obes (Lond). 2021 Jun;45(6):1229-1239. doi: 10.1038/s41366-021-00786-6.
Epub 2021 Mar 2.

Protective effects of the imidazoline-like drug lnp599 in a marmoset model of
obesity-induced metabolic disorders.

Weiss M(#)(1), Fellmann L(#)(2), Regnard P(2), Bousquet P(1), Monassier L(1),
Niederhoffer N(3).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire de Pharmacologie et Toxicologie NeuroCardiovasculaire - UR7296,
Fédération de Médecine Translationnelle de Strasbourg, Faculté de Médecine,
Université de Strasbourg, Strasbourg, France.
(2)SILABE, Université de Strasbourg, Fort Foch, Niederhausbergen, Strasbourg,
France.
(3)Laboratoire de Pharmacologie et Toxicologie NeuroCardiovasculaire - UR7296,
Fédération de Médecine Translationnelle de Strasbourg, Faculté de Médecine,
Université de Strasbourg, Strasbourg, France. nathalie.niederhoffer@unistra.fr.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND/OBJECTIVES: Overweight and obesity are undoubtable risk factors for
type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular diseases and significantly contribute to the
global morbi-mortality. We previoulsy reported that LNP599, a pharmacological
imidazoline-like activator of hepatic AMPK/adiponectin signaling, protects
against the development of adiposity and obesity and the associated
cardio-metabolic disorders, suggesting that it may be a suitable drug candidate
for a therapeutic approach targeting the development of obesity at very early
stages. The objective of the present study was to evaluate the metabolic effects 
of LNP599 in a model of diet-induced overweight and metabolic disorders in a
nonhuman primate, the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), and more particularly
to establish the impact of the compound on cholesterol homeostasis, i.e., HDL and
LDL/VLDL lipoproteins.
METHODS: Marmosets were fed normal (NC) or hypercaloric (HC) chow during 16
weeks. Diet-induced changes in body weight and metabolism were assessed. Effects 
of LNP599 were evaluated in a subset of HC animals (HC-LNP) receiving the
compound at a daily dose of 10 mg/kg over the 16 weeks.
RESULTS: HC-feeding induced significant overweight associated with a marked
dyslipidemia (hypertriglyceridemia, hypercholesterolemia, and reduced HDL over
LDL/VLDL cholesterol ratio). LNP599 blunted the diet-induced body weight gain and
largely protected against the development of hypertriglyceridemia. Total
cholesterol was unchanged but the ratio of HDL over LDL/VLDL cholesterol was more
than doubled.
CONCLUSIONS: The profile of metabolic troubles obtained upon enriched diet
mimicked the disorders associated with spontaneous obesity in marmosets. HC
marmosets represent an experimental model of high clinical relevance to study the
pathophysiology of obesity and related dyslipidemia and to evaluate the effects
of emerging therapies targeting these disorders. Our data confirm the preventing 
effects of LNP599 in a nonhuman primate model and demonstrate for the first time 
the high potency of this drug in promoting HDL-cholesterol.

DOI: 10.1038/s41366-021-00786-6 
PMID: 33654274  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


177. ILAR J. 2020 Dec 31;61(2-3):274-285. doi: 10.1093/ilar/ilaa029.

Magnetic Resonance Imaging of Marmoset Monkeys.

Schaeffer DJ(1), Liu C(2), Silva AC(1), Everling S(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania, USA.
(2)Institute of Neuroscience, Center for Excellence in Brain Science and
Intelligence Technology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shanghai, China.
(3)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, Robarts Research Institute,
University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, Canada.

The use of the common marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus) for neuroscientific
research has grown markedly in the last decade. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) 
has played a significant role in establishing the extent of comparability of
marmoset brain architecture with the human brain and brains of other preclinical 
species (eg, macaques and rodents). As a non-invasive technique, MRI allows for
the flexible acquisition of the same sequences across different species in vivo, 
including imaging of whole-brain functional topologies not possible with more
invasive techniques. Being one of the smallest New World primates, the marmoset
may be an ideal nonhuman primate species to study with MRI. As primates,
marmosets have an elaborated frontal cortex with features analogous to the human 
brain, while also having a small enough body size to fit into powerful small-bore
MRI systems typically employed for rodent imaging; these systems offer superior
signal strength and resolution. Further, marmosets have a rich behavioral
repertoire uniquely paired with a lissencephalic cortex (like rodents). This
smooth cortical surface lends itself well to MRI and also other invasive
methodologies. With the advent of transgenic modification techniques, marmosets
have gained significant traction as a powerful complement to canonical mammalian 
modelling species. Marmosets are poised to make major contributions to
preclinical investigations of the pathophysiology of human brain disorders as
well as more basic mechanistic explorations of the brain. The goal of this
article is to provide an overview of the practical aspects of implementing MRI
and fMRI in marmosets (both under anesthesia and fully awake) and discuss the
development of resources recently made available for marmoset imaging.

© The Author(s) 2021. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the
National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine. All rights reserved.
For permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/ilar/ilaa029 
PMCID: PMC8918195
PMID: 33631015 

