

1788. Vet Pathol. 2012 Sep;49(5):839-45. doi: 10.1177/0300985811427151. Epub 2011 Dec
8.

Spontaneous glomerular and tubulointerstitial lesions in common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus).

Isobe K(1), Adachi K, Hayashi S, Ito T, Miyoshi A, Kato A, Suzuki M.

Author information: 
(1)Safety Assessment Department, Chugai Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., 1-135 Komakado,
Gotemba, Shizuoka 412-8513, Japan. isobe.kaori@chugai-pharm.co.jp

Spontaneous progressive nephropathy dominated by glomerular lesions in common
marmosets has been reported. However, the histopathologic characteristics,
including the relationship between glomerular and tubulointerstitial lesions,
have not been described in detail. In the present study, the authors examined the
histopathologic characteristics of the background renal lesions in common
marmosets (3 males and 9 females, 3 to 8 years old). The severity of glomerular
lesions was graded into 3 classes: grade I, no alteration; grade II, hilar/focal 
increase of mesangial matrix; grade III, global/diffuse increase of mesangial
matrix. Tubulointerstitial lesions (tubular regeneration and hyperplasia and
interstitial inflammation and fibrosis) were scored according to the area of each
lesion. The renal lesions were characterized by enlargement of glomeruli,
expanded mesangial area with increase of periodic acid-Schiff reaction-positive
matrix, tubular regeneration and hyperplasia, and interstitial inflammation and
fibrosis. Glomerular lesions progressed with increasing mesangial matrix and
aging. Additionally, the tubulointerstitial lesions became exacerbated with
progressing glomerular lesions. Tubular hyperplasia was divided into 4 types
according to the structure of the cell layer (simple or stratified-like), the
area of increased lining cells (partial or entire), cytoplasmic staining
(eosinophilic or basophilic), brush border and thickness of basement membrane,
and the activity of cell proliferation. In conclusion, the background renal
lesions in common marmosets were characterized by glomerular lesions with
increase of mesangial matrix, which progressed with aging, and secondary
tubulointerstitial lesions, including tubular hyperplasia. Those lesions were
thus diagnosed as progressive glomerulonephropathy in common marmosets.

DOI: 10.1177/0300985811427151 
PMID: 22156228  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1789. PLoS One. 2011;6(11):e27706. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0027706. Epub 2011 Nov 29.

Human hepatocyte growth factor promotes functional recovery in primates after
spinal cord injury.

Kitamura K(1), Fujiyoshi K, Yamane J, Toyota F, Hikishima K, Nomura T, Funakoshi 
H, Nakamura T, Aoki M, Toyama Y, Okano H, Nakamura M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Keio University School of Medicine,
Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo, Japan.

Many therapeutic interventions for spinal cord injury (SCI) using neurotrophic
factors have focused on reducing the area damaged by secondary, post-injury
degeneration, to promote functional recovery. Hepatocyte growth factor (HGF),
which is a potent mitogen for mature hepatocytes and a mediator of the
inflammatory responses to tissue injury, was recently highlighted as a potent
neurotrophic factor in the central nervous system. We previously reported that
introducing exogenous HGF into the injured rodent spinal cord using a herpes
simplex virus-1 vector significantly reduces the area of damaged tissue and
promotes functional recovery. However, that study did not examine the therapeutic
effects of administering HGF after injury, which is the most critical issue for
clinical application. To translate this strategy to human treatment, we induced a
contusive cervical SCI in the common marmoset, a primate, and then administered
recombinant human HGF (rhHGF) intrathecally. Motor function was assessed using an
original open field scoring system focusing on manual function, including
reach-and-grasp performance and hand placement in walking. The intrathecal rhHGF 
preserved the corticospinal fibers and myelinated areas, thereby promoting
functional recovery. In vivo magnetic resonance imaging showed significant
preservation of the intact spinal cord parenchyma. rhHGF-treatment did not give
rise to an abnormal outgrowth of calcitonin gene related peptide positive fibers 
compared to the control group, indicating that this treatment did not induce or
exacerbate allodynia. This is the first study to report the efficacy of rhHGF for
treating SCI in non-human primates. In addition, this is the first presentation
of a novel scale for assessing neurological motor performance in non-human
primates after contusive cervical SCI.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0027706 
PMCID: PMC3226561
PMID: 22140459  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

