

179. ILAR J. 2020 Dec 31;61(2-3):188-198. doi: 10.1093/ilar/ilaa025.

The Gastrointestinal Microbiota of the Common Marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Sheh A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Comparative Medicine, Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
Cambridge, MA, USA.

The microbiota is heavily involved in both health and disease pathogenesis, but
defining a normal, healthy microbiota in the common marmoset has been
challenging. The aim of this review was to systematically review recent
literature involving the gastrointestinal microbiome of common marmosets in
health and disease. Twelve sources were included in this review. The gut
microbiome composition was reviewed across institutions worldwide, and taxonomic 
shifts between healthy individuals were described. Unlike the human gut
microbiome, which is dominated by Firmicutes and Bacteroidetes, the marmoset gut 
microbiome shows great plasticity across institutions, with 5 different phyla
described as dominant in different healthy cohorts. Genera shared across
institutions include Anaerobiospirillum, Bacteroides, Bifidobacterium,
Collinsella, Fusobacterium, Megamonas, Megasphaera, Phascolarctobacterium, and
Prevotella. Shifts in the abundance of Prevotella or Bifidobacterium or invasion 
by pathogens like Clostridium perfringens may be associated with disease. Changes
in microbial composition have been described in healthy and diseased marmosets,
but factors influencing the severe changes in microbial composition have not been
established. Multi-institutional, prospective, and longitudinal studies that
utilize multiple testing methodologies are required to determine sources of
variability in the reporting of marmoset microbiomes. Furthermore, methods of
microbial manipulation, whether by diet, enrichment, fecal microbiome
transplantation, etc, need to be established to modulate and maintain robust and 
resilient microbiome communities in marmoset colonies and reduce the incidence of
idiopathic gastrointestinal disease.

© The Author(s) 2021. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the
National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine. All rights reserved.
For permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/ilar/ilaa025 
PMCID: PMC8918151
PMID: 33620078 


180. ILAR J. 2020 Dec 31;61(2-3):248-259. doi: 10.1093/ilar/ilaa028.

The Marmoset: The Next Frontier in Understanding the Development of the Human
Brain.

Homman-Ludiye J(1), Bourne JA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Australian Regenerative Medicine Institute, Monash University, Clayton,
Victoria, Australia.

Rodent models, particularly mice, have dominated the field of developmental
neuroscience for decades, like they have in most fields of biomedicine research. 
However, with 80 million years since rodents and primates last shared a common
ancestor, the use of mice to model the development of the human brain is not
without many shortcomings. The human brain diverges from the mouse brain in many 
aspects and is comprised of novel structures as well as diversified cellular
subtypes. While these newly evolved features have no equivalent in rodents, they 
are observed in nonhuman primates. Therefore, elucidating the cellular mechanisms
underlying the development and maturation of the healthy and diseased human brain
can be achieved using less complex nonhuman primates. Historically, macaques were
the preferred nonhuman primate model. However, over the past decade, the New
World marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus) has gained more importance,
particularly in the field of neurodevelopment. With its small size, twin or
triplet birth, and prosocial behavior, the marmoset is an ideal model to study
normal brain development as well as neurodevelopmental disorders, which are often
associated with abnormal social behaviors. The growing interest in the marmoset
has prompted many comparative studies, all demonstrating that the marmoset brain 
closely resembles that of the human and is perfectly suited to model human brain 
development. The marmoset is thus poised to extend its influence in the field of 
neurodevelopment and will hopefully fill the gaps that the mouse has left in our 
understanding of how our brain forms and how neurodevelopmental disorders
originate.

© The Author(s) 2021. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the
National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine. All rights reserved.
For permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/ilar/ilaa028 
PMID: 33620074 

