

1807. Hum Vaccin. 2011 Nov;7(11):1215-24. doi: 10.4161/hv.7.11.17944. Epub 2011 Nov 1.

Recombinant vaccines against leptospirosis.

Dellagostin OA(1), Grassmann AA, Hartwig DD, Félix SR, da Silva ÉF, McBride AJ.

Author information: 
(1)Unidade de Biotecnologia, Centro de Desenvolvimento Tecnológico, Salvador, BA,
Brazil. odir@ufpel.edu.br

Leptospirosis is an important neglected infectious disease that occurs in urban
environments, as well as in rural regions worldwide. Rodents, the principal
reservoir hosts of pathogenic Leptospira spp., and other infected animals shed
the bacteria in their urine. During occupational or even recreational activities,
humans that come into direct contact with infected animals or with a contaminated
environment, particularly water, are at risk of infection. Prevention of urban
leptospirosis is largely dependent on sanitation measures that are often
difficult to implement, especially in developing countries. Vaccination with
inactivated whole-cell preparations (bacterins) has limited efficacy due to the
wide antigenic variation of the pathogen. Intensive efforts towards developing
improved recombinant vaccines are ongoing. During the last decade, many reports
on the evaluation of recombinant vaccines have been published. Partial success
has been obtained with some surface-exposed protein antigens. The combination of 
protective antigens and new adjuvants or delivery systems may result in the
much-needed effective vaccine.

DOI: 10.4161/hv.7.11.17944 
PMID: 22048111  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1808. Anat Rec (Hoboken). 2011 Dec;294(12):2131-9. doi: 10.1002/ar.21500. Epub 2011 Nov
1.

Craniofacial adaptations to tree-gouging among marmosets.

Forsythe EC(1), Ford SM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anthropology, Southern Illinois University, Carbondale, USA.
ecforsyt@siu.edu

Many primates rely on exudates as dietary items, but comparatively few elicit
exudates via tree-gouging. Marmosets are the only haplorhines to extensively
utilize this behavior during feeding. Several studies have explored craniofacial 
adaptations to this behavior, but its morphological correlates are a matter of
debate. Various studies suggest that gougers exhibit bite-force maximizing
adaptations, load resistance adaptations, and/or jaw-gape maximizing
characteristics. All of these seemingly incompatible biomechanical adaptations
have previously been argued for marmosets. This study utilizes multivariate and
univariate analyses to compare gouging and non-gouging callitrichids for 25
biomechanically relevant craniofacial variables to address this form-function
debate. We show that marmosets differ from non-gouging callitrichids in few
craniofacial characteristics. Specifically, three craniofacial features
differentiate them from non-gougers: relatively longer basicrania, narrower
palates, and shorter coronoid processes. We suggest that these characteristics
are consistent with a mosaic model for gouging adaptations. In particular, we
argue that: (a) shortening the coronoid processes facilitates relatively larger
maximum jaw-gapes, (b) basicranial elongation facilitates the extended neck/head 
posture utilized by marmosets during gouging to maximize gapes, and (c) narrowing
the palate serves to more effectively dissipate forces through the maxillary
canines during substrate anchoring. Previous studies have documented some of
these characters as typical of marmosets, but this combination has not been
interpreted as core elements of the marmoset adaptive complex. Marmosets exhibit 
a unique anatomical repertoire that biomechanically adapts them to both increased
jaw-gape and the force dissipation regime associated with tree-gouging.
Comparisons among marmoset taxa may enlighten the evolutionary history of the
features reported here.

Copyright © 2011 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ar.21500 
PMID: 22042640  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

