

1808. Anat Rec (Hoboken). 2011 Dec;294(12):2131-9. doi: 10.1002/ar.21500. Epub 2011 Nov
1.

Craniofacial adaptations to tree-gouging among marmosets.

Forsythe EC(1), Ford SM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anthropology, Southern Illinois University, Carbondale, USA.
ecforsyt@siu.edu

Many primates rely on exudates as dietary items, but comparatively few elicit
exudates via tree-gouging. Marmosets are the only haplorhines to extensively
utilize this behavior during feeding. Several studies have explored craniofacial 
adaptations to this behavior, but its morphological correlates are a matter of
debate. Various studies suggest that gougers exhibit bite-force maximizing
adaptations, load resistance adaptations, and/or jaw-gape maximizing
characteristics. All of these seemingly incompatible biomechanical adaptations
have previously been argued for marmosets. This study utilizes multivariate and
univariate analyses to compare gouging and non-gouging callitrichids for 25
biomechanically relevant craniofacial variables to address this form-function
debate. We show that marmosets differ from non-gouging callitrichids in few
craniofacial characteristics. Specifically, three craniofacial features
differentiate them from non-gougers: relatively longer basicrania, narrower
palates, and shorter coronoid processes. We suggest that these characteristics
are consistent with a mosaic model for gouging adaptations. In particular, we
argue that: (a) shortening the coronoid processes facilitates relatively larger
maximum jaw-gapes, (b) basicranial elongation facilitates the extended neck/head 
posture utilized by marmosets during gouging to maximize gapes, and (c) narrowing
the palate serves to more effectively dissipate forces through the maxillary
canines during substrate anchoring. Previous studies have documented some of
these characters as typical of marmosets, but this combination has not been
interpreted as core elements of the marmoset adaptive complex. Marmosets exhibit 
a unique anatomical repertoire that biomechanically adapts them to both increased
jaw-gape and the force dissipation regime associated with tree-gouging.
Comparisons among marmoset taxa may enlighten the evolutionary history of the
features reported here.

Copyright © 2011 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ar.21500 
PMID: 22042640  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1809. Brain Res. 2011 Nov 24;1425:47-61. doi: 10.1016/j.brainres.2011.09.020. Epub 2011
Sep 17.

Comparative distribution of cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART) 
in the hypothalamus of the capuchin monkey (Cebus apella) and the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus).

Cavalcante JC(1), Cândido PL, Sita LV, do Nascimento ES Jr, Cavalcante Jde S, de 
Oliveira Costa MS, Bittencourt JC, Elias CF.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Neuroanatomy, Department of Morphology, Center of Biosciences,
Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, RN 59072-970, Brazil.
judney@cb.ufrn.br

Cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART) is widely distributed in the
brain of many species. In the hypothalamus, CART neurotransmission has been
implicated in diverse functions including energy balance, stress response, and
temperature and endocrine regulation. Although some studies have been performed
in primates, very little is known about the distribution of CART neurons in New
World monkeys. New World monkeys are good models for systems neuroscience, as
some species have evolved several behavioral and anatomical characteristics
shared with humans, including diurnal and social habits, intense maternal care,
complex manipulative abilities and well-developed frontal cortices. In the
present study, we assessed the distribution of CART mRNA and peptide in the
hypothalamus of the capuchin monkey (Cebus apella) and the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus). We found that the distribution of hypothalamic CART neurons
in these monkeys is similar to what has been described for rodents and humans,
but some relevant differences were noticed. Only in capuchin monkeys CART neurons
were observed in the suprachiasmatic and the intercalatus nuclei, whereas only in
marmoset CART neurons were observed in the dorsal anterior nucleus. We also found
that the only in marmoset displayed CART neurons in the periventricular preoptic 
nucleus and in an area seemingly comprising the premammillary nucleus. These
hypothalamic sites are both well defined in rodents but poorly defined in humans.
Our findings indicate that CART expression in hypothalamic neurons is conserved
across species but the identified differences suggest that CART is also involved 
in the control of species-specific related functions.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brainres.2011.09.020 
PMID: 22030409  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

