

1816. Genome Res. 2011 Dec;21(12):2038-48. doi: 10.1101/gr.122937.111. Epub 2011 Oct
12.

A matter of life or death: how microsatellites emerge in and vanish from the
human genome.

Kelkar YD(1), Eckert KA, Chiaromonte F, Makova KD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Penn State University, University Park, Pennsylvania
16802, USA.

Microsatellites--tandem repeats of short DNA motifs--are abundant in the human
genome and have high mutation rates. While microsatellite instability is
implicated in numerous genetic diseases, the molecular processes involved in
their emergence and disappearance are still not well understood. Microsatellites 
are hypothesized to follow a life cycle, wherein they are born and expand into
adulthood, until their degradation and death. Here we identified microsatellite
births/deaths in human, chimpanzee, and orangutan genomes, using macaque and
marmoset as outgroups. We inferred mutations causing births/deaths based on
parsimony, and investigated local genomic environments affecting them. We also
studied birth/death patterns within transposable elements (Alus and L1s), coding 
regions, and disease-associated loci. We observed that substitutions were the
predominant cause for births of short microsatellites, while insertions and
deletions were important for births of longer microsatellites. Substitutions were
the cause for deaths of microsatellites of virtually all lengths. AT-rich L1
sequences exhibited elevated frequency of births/deaths over their entire length,
while GC-rich Alus only in their 3' poly(A) tails and middle A-stretches, with
differences depending on transposable element integration timing. Births/deaths
were strongly selected against in coding regions. Births/deaths occurred in
genomic regions with high substitution rates, protomicrosatellite content, and L1
density, but low GC content and Alu density. The majority of the 17
disease-associated microsatellites examined are evolutionarily ancient (were
acquired by the common ancestor of simians). Our genome-wide investigation of
microsatellite life cycle has fundamental applications for predicting the
susceptibility of birth/death of microsatellites, including many disease-causing 
loci.

DOI: 10.1101/gr.122937.111 
PMCID: PMC3227094
PMID: 21994250  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1817. J Exp Biol. 2011 Nov 1;214(Pt 21):3619-29. doi: 10.1242/jeb.056101.

Vocal control by the common marmoset in the presence of interfering noise.

Roy S(1), Miller CT, Gottsch D, Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA.

The natural environment is inherently noisy with acoustic interferences. It is,
therefore, beneficial for a species to modify its vocal production to effectively
communicate in the presence of interfering noises. Non-human primates have been
traditionally considered to possess limited voluntary vocal control, but little
is known about their ability to modify vocal behavior when encountering
interfering noises. Here we tested the ability of the common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus) to control the initiation of vocalizations and maintain vocal
interactions between pairs in an acoustic environment in which the length and
predictability (periodic or random aperiodic occurrences) of interfering noise
bursts were varied. Despite the presence of interfering noise, the marmosets
continued to engage in antiphonal calling behavior. Results showed that the
overwhelming majority of calls were initiated during silence gaps even when the
length of the silence gap following each noise burst was unpredictable. During
the periodic noise conditions, as the length of the silence gap decreased, the
latency between the end of noise burst and call onset decreased significantly. In
contrast, when presented with aperiodic noise bursts, the marmosets chose to call
predominantly during long (4 and 8 s) over short (2 s) silence gaps. In the 8 s
periodic noise conditions, a marmoset pair either initiated both calls of an
antiphonal exchange within the same silence gap or exchanged calls in two
consecutive silence gaps. Our findings provide compelling evidence that common
marmosets are capable of modifying their vocal production according to the
dynamics of their acoustic environment during vocal communication.

DOI: 10.1242/jeb.056101 
PMCID: PMC3192021
PMID: 21993791  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

