

182. J Med Primatol. 2021 Jun;50(3):157-163. doi: 10.1111/jmp.12518. Epub 2021 Feb 21.

Hematology and blood chemistry reference values of free-ranging Callithrix
geoffroyi in Urban environment in Espírito Santo state, Brazil.

Gariglio ACRS(1), Boere V(2), Malukiewicz J(3), Abreu Fonseca L(4), Calais A
Jr(5), Silva IO(2).

Author information: 
(1)Post Graduate Program in Animal Biology, Universidade Federal de Viçosa,
Viçosa, MG, Brazil.
(2)Instituto de Humanidades, Artes e Ciências, Universidade Federal do Sul da
Bahia, Campus Jorge Amado, Itabuna, BA, Brazil.
(3)Primate Genetics Laboratory, German Primate Research Center, Leibniz Institute
for Primate Research, Goettingen, Germany.
(4)Department of Veterinary Medicine, Universidade Federal de Viçosa, Viçosa, MG,
Brazil.
(5)Post Graduate Program in Animal Science, Universidade Estadual do Norte
Fluminense, Campos dos Goytacazes, RJ, Brazil.

BACKGROUND: The Callithrix geoffroyi are increasingly present in Brazilian urban 
areas, where they are vulnerable to health problems. The purpose of this study
was a description of hematology and nine blood chemistry parameters of
free-ranging C. geoffroyi.
METHODS: Thirty individuals were captured in urban-forested settings. The
marmosets were anesthetized, venopunctioned, and released shortly after recovery.
The analysis was carried on in a veterinary laboratory, using automatic cells
counter, staining methods, and an automatic biochemical analyzer.
RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS: Male and female free-ranging C. geoffroyi have similar
hematological and blood chemistry values. The adults presented higher
concentrations of erythrocytes (P <.02) and hemoglobin (P <.02) than young
marmosets. The platelet concentration was lower (P <.05) in adults comparing to
young marmosets. There were not statistically significant differences between
young and adult blood chemistry concentrations. This is the first time that are
presented hematology and blood biochemistry data on free-ranging C. geoffroyi.

© 2021 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jmp.12518 
PMID: 33615486  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


183. Front Behav Neurosci. 2021 Feb 2;14:539411. doi: 10.3389/fnbeh.2020.539411.
eCollection 2020.

A Susceptible Period of Photic Day-Night Rhythm Loss in Common Marmoset Social
Behavior Development.

Koshiba M(1)(2)(3), Watarai-Senoo A(2), Karino G(2), Ozawa S(2), Kamei Y(4),
Honda Y(5), Tanaka I(5), Kodama T(5), Usui S(5), Tokuno H(5).

Author information: 
(1)Engineering Department, Yamaguchi University, Ube City, Japan.
(2)Pediatrics, Saitama Medical University, Saitama, Japan.
(3)Graduate School of Information Sciences, Tohoku University, Sendai, Japan.
(4)Obstetrics and Gynecology, Saitama Medical University, Saitama, Japan.
(5)Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of Medical Science, Setagaya, Japan.

The prevalence of neurodevelopmental psychiatric disorders such as pervasive
developmental disorders is rapidly increasing worldwide. Although these
developmental disorders are known to be influenced by an individual's genetic
background, the potential biological responses to early life's environmental
exposure to both physical and psychological factors must also be considered. Many
studies have acknowledged the influence of shorter time for rest at night and the
simultaneous occurrence of various kinds of complications involving developmental
disorders. In a prior study, we examined how a common marmoset's (Callithrix
jacchus) psychosocial development was affected when it was reared under constant 
daylight from birth and then reared individually by humans nursing them under
constant light (LL) during their juvenile development stages. The behaviors of
these marmosets were compared with those of normal day-night cycle (LD) marmosets
using a multivariate analysis based on principal component analysis (PCA). That
study found that LL marmosets relatively elicited egg-like calls (Ecall) and
side-to-side shakes of the upper body with rapid head rotation through adulthood 
frequently. Based on the PCA, these behaviors were interpreted as "alert" or
"hyperactive" states. However, we did not clarify susceptible periods of the
photic rhythm loss experience and the psychological development output. In this
study we summarize the following studies in our model animal colonies involving
30 animals (11 female, 19 males) to further explore critical age states of
inquiry about each social behavior profiling. We compared social behaviors of
three age stages, juvenile, adolescent and young adult equivalent to one another 
in four LL experience conditions, LL (postnatal day (P) 0 to around 150), Middle 
(P60-149, 90 days), Late (P150-239, 90 days), and LD (no experience). In the most
representative 1st and 2nd principal component scores, the shifting to higher
frequency of alert behaviors developed at the adult stage in LL, Middle, then
Late in turn. The no LL experience group, LD, generally featured higher frequency
of local preference of high position compared to LL experience present groups, in
adulthood. This limited model primate study might inspire different developmental
age sensitive mechanisms of neuronal network to control socio-emotional functions
by utilizing the multivariate visualization method, BOUQUET. This study could
potentially contribute to nurturing educational designs for social developmental 
disorders.

Copyright © 2021 Koshiba, Watarai-Senoo, Karino, Ozawa, Kamei, Honda, Tanaka,
Kodama, Usui and Tokuno.

DOI: 10.3389/fnbeh.2020.539411 
PMCID: PMC7884770
PMID: 33603653 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.

