

1840. J Mol Endocrinol. 2011 Oct 24;47(3):285-98. doi: 10.1530/JME-11-0026. Print 2011 
Dec.

A novel two-promoter-one-gene system of the chorionic gonadotropin β gene enables
tissue-specific expression.

Adams C(1), Henke A, Gromoll J.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Reproductive and Regenerative Biology, Centre of Reproduction and
Andrology, University Hospital Münster, Domagkstrasse 11, 48129 Münster, Germany.

The New World monkey (NWM), Callithrix jacchus, a preferred model in medical
research, displays an interesting endocrine regulation of reproduction: LH, the
heterodimeric glycoprotein hormone, is functionally replaced by the chorionic
gonadotropin (CG), a hormone indispensable for establishment of pregnancy in
humans and normally expressed in the placenta. In the marmoset pituitary, the
expression of the β-subunit (CGB) gene is regulated similar to human LH
β-subunit, but its placental regulation is unknown. This study intended to
decipher the underlying mechanism of tissue-specific expression of CGB in the
marmoset placenta. We identified a new placental transcriptional start site,
described a new, previously undiscovered exon, and define a novel placental core 
promoter in the marmoset CGB gene. This promoter contains a TATA box and binding 
sites for activating protein 2 and selective promoter factor 1, the latter acting
synergistically by forming a regulation cassette. Differential first exon usage
directed the tissue-specific expression. Methylation analyses revealed a
tissue-specific pattern in the placental promoter indicating additional
epigenetic regulation of gene expression. Our findings point toward a hitherto
unknown evolutionary plasticity in the LH/CG hormonal system in NWM, which could 
be used as a model to study human CGB regulation in clinical pathologies.

© 2011 Society for Endocrinology

DOI: 10.1530/JME-11-0026 
PMID: 21821715  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1841. Gen Comp Endocrinol. 2011 Nov 1;174(2):71-9. doi: 10.1016/j.ygcen.2011.07.004.
Epub 2011 Jul 29.

Ultrastructural analysis, zinc transporters, glucose transporters and hormones
expression in New world primate (Callithrix jacchus) and human pancreatic islets.

Mohanasundaram D(1), Drogemuller C, Brealey J, Jessup CF, Milner C, Murgia C,
Lang CJ, Milton A, Zalewski PD, Russ GR, Coates PT.

Author information: 
(1)Central Northern Adelaide Renal and Transplantation Services, South Australian
and Northern Territory Islet Program and Australian Islet Consortium, Royal
Adelaide Hospital, Adelaide, Australia.

The New world primates (NWP) Callithrix jacchus separated from man approximately 
50 million years ago and is a potential alternative small non-human primate model
for diabetes research. Ultrastructure, and gene expression of pancreatic islets
and the recently described diabetes auto antigenic zinc transporters families in 
human, NWP and pig pancreas were studied. Morphologically NWP islets were larger 
than pig islets and similar in size to human islets. NWP islets alpha cells had
high dense core surrounded by a limiting membrane, beta cells by the mixed
morphology of the granule core, and delta cells by moderate opaque core. Antibody
staining for insulin, glucagon, somatostatin and Glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) 
showed that the distribution pattern of the different cell types within islets
was comparable to pig and human islets. In all three species protein expression
of zinc transporter ZnT8 was detected in most of the insulin producing beta cells
whereas Zip14 expression was widely expressed in alpha and beta cells. In both
human and NWP little or no expression of Glut2 was observed compared to Glut1 and
glucokinase at the protein level, however the messenger RNA level of Glut2 was
greater than Glut1 and glucokinase. In contrast all three glucose transporters
were expressed in pig islets at the protein level. The expression of Zip14 in
islets is reported for the first time. In conclusion NWP pancreatic islets
express comparable islet cell types and distribution to humans and pigs.
Importantly, marmosets have a similar glucose transporter profile to humans,
making this non-endangered primate species a useful animal model for pancreatic
biology.

Crown Copyright © 2011. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ygcen.2011.07.004 
PMID: 21821034  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

