

1842. Comp Med. 2011 Jun;61(3):278-84.

Colonization with nontuberculous mycobacteria is associated with positive
tuberculin skin test reactions in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Wachtman LM(1), Miller AD, Xia D, Curran EH, Mansfield KG.

Author information: 
(1)New England Primate Research Center, Harvard Medical School, Southborough,
Massachusetts, USA. Lynn_wachtman@hms.harvard.edu

Mycobacterium tuberculosis infections can result in significant morbidity and
mortality in nonhuman primate colonies. Preventative health programs designed to 
detect infection routinely include tuberculin skin testing (TST). Because
Mammalian Old Tuberculin used for TST contains antigens common to a variety of
mycobacterial species, false-positive results can occur in animals sensitized to 
nontuberculous mycobacteria (NTM). Over 11 mo, a large colony of common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus) demonstrated a 3.6% prevalence of equivocal or positive TST 
reactions (termed 'suspect reactions'). Culture of gastric aspirates,
bronchoalveolar lavage fluid, and feces revealed a single animal with a positive 
fecal culture for Mycobacterium gordonae. PCR amplification of M. gordonae DNA in
feces collected from animals with suspect TST reactions (demonstrating a 66.7%
colonization rate) and colony controls (demonstrating a 14.3% colonization rate) 
revealed a significant association between suspect TST reactions and intestinal
colonization. Gross and histopathologic evaluation revealed a multifocal
lymphadenopathy and granulomatous lymphadenitis in 2 of 4 TST-positive marmosets 
examined. Counter to expectations, granulomatous lymphoid tissue was
culture-positive for M. kansasii rather than M. gordonae. Detection of M.
gordonae in the feces of TST-suspect animals likely represents an apathogenic
intestinal colonization that may serve as an indicator of NTM exposure, whereas
evidence of histopathologic disease is associated with the more pathogenic M.
kansasii. Although a high index of suspicion for M. tuberculosis should always be
maintained, colonization with NTM organisms represents a cause of suspect TST
reactions in common marmosets.

Copyright 2011 by the American Association for Laboratory Animal Science


PMCID: PMC3123762
PMID: 21819699  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1843. Sleep. 2011 Aug 1;34(8):1119-25. doi: 10.5665/SLEEP.1174.

REM sleep behavior disorder in the marmoset MPTP model of early Parkinson
disease.

Verhave PS(1), Jongsma MJ, Van den Berg RM, Vis JC, Vanwersch RA, Smit AB, Van
Someren EJ, Philippens IH.

Author information: 
(1)BU CBRN Protection, TNO Defence, Security and Safety, Rijswijk, The
Netherlands. nellekeverhave@gmail.com

STUDY OBJECTIVES: Sleep problems are a common phenomenon in most neurological and
psychiatric diseases. In Parkinson disease (PD), for instance, sleep problems may
be the most common and burdensome non-motor symptoms in addition to the
well-described classical motor symptoms. Since sleep disturbances generally
become apparent in the disease before motor symptoms emerge, they may represent
early diagnostic tools and a means to investigate early mechanisms in PD onset.
The sleep disturbance, REM sleep behavior disorder (RBD), precedes PD in
one-third of patients. We therefore investigated sleep changes in marmoset
monkeys treated with 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine hydrochloride
(MPTP), the non-human primate model for idiopathic PD.
DESIGN: Mild parkinsonism was induced in 5 marmoset monkeys (3M/2F) over a 2-week
period of subchronic MPTP treatment. Electroencephalograms (EEGs) and
electromyograms (EMGs) were recorded weekly. Motor activity and hand-eye
coordination were also measured weekly, and any signs of parkinsonism were noted 
each day. Sleep parameters, motor activity, and performance data before and after
MPTP treatment were compared between MPTP-treated marmosets and 4 control
marmosets (1M/3F).
RESULTS: MPTP increased the number of sleep epochs with high-amplitude EMG bouts 
during REM sleep relative to control animals (mean ± SEM percentage of REM 58.2 ±
9.3 vs. 29.6 ± 7.7; P < 0.05). Of all sleep parameters measured, RBD-like
measures discriminated best between MPTP-treated and control animals. On the
other hand, functional motor behavior, as measured by hand-eye coordination, was 
not affected by MPTP treatment (correct trials MPTP: 23.40 ± 3.56 vs. control:
36.13 ± 5.88 correct trials; P = 0.32).
CONCLUSIONS: This REM sleep-specific change, in the absence of profound changes
in wake motor behaviors, suggests that the MPTP marmoset model of PD could be
used for further studies into the mechanisms and treatment of RBD and other sleep
disorders in premotor symptom PD.

DOI: 10.5665/SLEEP.1174 
PMCID: PMC3138167
PMID: 21804674  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

