

1849. Neuroscience. 2011 Oct 13;193:249-58. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2011.06.080.
Epub 2011 Jul 18.

Local and retrograde gene transfer into primate neuronal pathways via
adeno-associated virus serotype 8 and 9.

Masamizu Y(1), Okada T, Kawasaki K, Ishibashi H, Yuasa S, Takeda S, Hasegawa I,
Nakahara K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurophysiology, National Institute of Neuroscience, NCNP, 4-1-1
Ogawa-Higashi, Kodaira, Tokyo 187-8502, Japan.

Viral vector-mediated gene transfer has become increasingly valuable for primate 
brain research, in particular for application of genetic methods (e.g.
optogenetics) to study neuronal circuit functions. Neuronal cell tropisms and
infection patterns are viable options for obtaining viral vector-mediated
transgene delivery that is selective for particular neuronal pathways. For
example, several types of viral vectors can infect axon terminals (retrograde
infections), which enables targeted transgene delivery to neurons that directly
project to a particular viral injection region. Although recent studies in
rodents have demonstrated that adeno-associated virus serotype 8 (AAV8) and 9
(AAV9) efficiently transduce neurons, the tropisms and infection patterns remain 
poorly understood in primate brains. Here, we constructed recombinant AAV8 or
AAV9, which expressed an enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) gene driven by
a ubiquitous promoter (AAV8-EGFP and AAV9-EGFP, respectively), and
stereotaxically injected it into several brain regions in marmosets and macaque
monkeys. Immunohistochemical analyses revealed almost exclusive colocalization of
EGFP fluorescence via AAV9-mediated gene transfer with a neuron-specific marker, 
indicating endogenous neuronal tropism of AAV9, which was consistent with our
previous results utilizing AAV8. Injections of either AAV8-EGFP or AAV9-EGFP into
the marmoset striatum resulted in EGFP expression in local striatal neurons as a 
result of local infection, as well as expression in dopaminergic neurons of the
substantia nigra via retrograde transport along nigrostriatal axonal projections.
Retrograde infections were also observed in the frontal cortex and thalamus,
which are known to have direct projections to the striatum. These local and
retrograde gene transfers were further demonstrated in the geniculocortical
pathway of the marmoset visual system. These findings indicate promising
capabilities of AAV8 and AAV9 to deliver molecular tools into a range of primate 
neural systems in pathway-specific manners through their neuronal tropisms and
infection patterns.

Copyright © 2011 IBRO. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2011.06.080 
PMID: 21782903  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1850. Stem Cells. 2011 Sep;29(9):1448-58. doi: 10.1002/stem.692.

The adult mouse dentate gyrus contains populations of committed progenitor cells 
that are distinct from subependymal zone neural stem cells.

Clarke L(1), van der Kooy D.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Medical Science, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
laura.clarke@utoronto.ca

There is currently a debate as to whether or not a neural stem cell (NSC) exists 
in the adult mammalian hippocampus. Clonal colony-forming assays allow single
cells to cells to be evaluated for stem cell properties: self-renewal and
multipotentiality. In these in vitro assays, single cells from the subependymal
zone (SEZ) of the adult lateral ventricle yield large colonies which self-renew
and are multipotential, while single cells from the adult dentate gyrus (DG)
produce small, unipotent, and nonself-renewing colonies. We find that
multipotential and long-term self-renewing colonies can be isolated only from the
early embryonic hippocampus, before the formation of the DG. No movement of
progenitors from the postnatal SEZ to the newly forming DG subgranular zone is
detected and adult DG colonies in vitro originate from the embryonic hippocampal 
primordium. These data support a model where embryonic hippocampal NSCs change
their properties as the organism ages. When adult DG spheres are cocultured with 
embryonic brain slices, self-renewal (but not multipotentiality) is restored and 
maintained for several passages off of slices. Adult clonal DG spheres grown on
embryonic brain slices or transplanted into brains of neonatal mice do not give
rise to neurons. Neurons arise from separate, small clones that are approximately
10 times more frequent than sphere colonies in vitro and may be responsible for
maintaining neurogenesis in the adult in vivo. We propose that there are separate
glial and neuronal clones in the adult hippocampus, with glial progenitors being 
the most proliferative in culture.

Copyright © 2011 AlphaMed Press.

DOI: 10.1002/stem.692 
PMID: 21774038  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

