

1850. Stem Cells. 2011 Sep;29(9):1448-58. doi: 10.1002/stem.692.

The adult mouse dentate gyrus contains populations of committed progenitor cells 
that are distinct from subependymal zone neural stem cells.

Clarke L(1), van der Kooy D.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Medical Science, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
laura.clarke@utoronto.ca

There is currently a debate as to whether or not a neural stem cell (NSC) exists 
in the adult mammalian hippocampus. Clonal colony-forming assays allow single
cells to cells to be evaluated for stem cell properties: self-renewal and
multipotentiality. In these in vitro assays, single cells from the subependymal
zone (SEZ) of the adult lateral ventricle yield large colonies which self-renew
and are multipotential, while single cells from the adult dentate gyrus (DG)
produce small, unipotent, and nonself-renewing colonies. We find that
multipotential and long-term self-renewing colonies can be isolated only from the
early embryonic hippocampus, before the formation of the DG. No movement of
progenitors from the postnatal SEZ to the newly forming DG subgranular zone is
detected and adult DG colonies in vitro originate from the embryonic hippocampal 
primordium. These data support a model where embryonic hippocampal NSCs change
their properties as the organism ages. When adult DG spheres are cocultured with 
embryonic brain slices, self-renewal (but not multipotentiality) is restored and 
maintained for several passages off of slices. Adult clonal DG spheres grown on
embryonic brain slices or transplanted into brains of neonatal mice do not give
rise to neurons. Neurons arise from separate, small clones that are approximately
10 times more frequent than sphere colonies in vitro and may be responsible for
maintaining neurogenesis in the adult in vivo. We propose that there are separate
glial and neuronal clones in the adult hippocampus, with glial progenitors being 
the most proliferative in culture.

Copyright © 2011 AlphaMed Press.

DOI: 10.1002/stem.692 
PMID: 21774038  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1851. Am J Primatol. 2011 Oct;73(10):1082-92. doi: 10.1002/ajp.20976. Epub 2011 Jul 18.

Increased positive selection pressure within the complementarity determining
regions of the T-cell receptor β gene in New World monkeys.

Matsutani T(1), Fujii Y, Kitaura K, Suzuki S, Tsuruta Y, Takasaki T, Ogasawara K,
Nishimoto N, Kurane I, Suzuki R.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Immune Regulation, Wakayama Medical University, Osaka, Japan.

Because of the long-term co-evolution of TCR and MHC molecules, numerous
nucleotide substitutions have accumulated within the domains of TCRβ genes. We
previously found that nonsynonymous nucleotide substitutions occurred more
frequently in complementarity determining region (CDR)β than in CDRα, even though
only a limited number of common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) and human T-cell
receptor β variable (TRBV) sequences were compared. This interesting finding
raised the question of whether the increased selective pressure within CDRβ was
species-specific. In this study, we identified 21 TRBV region sequences from the 
common marmoset and performed comparative sequence analyses of the T-cell
receptor α variable (TRAV) and TRBV regions from human, chimpanzee, rhesus
monkey, cotton-top tamarin, Ma's night monkey, and common marmoset. The ratios of
the number of nonsynonymous nucleotide substitutions per site (d(N) ) to the d(S)
values (d(N) /d(S) ) were less than 1 within the framework regions (FRs) of TRAV 
and TRBV region sequences, suggesting that purifying selection is largely
dominant within the FRs. In contrast, the d(N) values were statistically
significantly greater for CDRβ than for CDRα only in New World monkeys. Also,
increased d(N) /d(S) ratios (d(N) /d(S) >1) were observed within CDRβ between
humans and New World monkeys and, interestingly, between New World monkeys, which
share a relatively recent common ancestor. Moreover, phylogenetic analysis by
maximum likelihood analysis provided firm evidence to support that positive
selection occurred within CDRβ along New World monkey lineages. These results
suggest that increased positive selection pressure within CDRβ is common in New
World monkeys rather than being species-specific. This study provides an
intriguing insight into the co-evolution of TCR and MHC molecules within
primates.

© 2011 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20976 
PMID: 21769905  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

