

1857. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2011 Jul 29;411(2):317-22. doi:
10.1016/j.bbrc.2011.06.134. Epub 2011 Jun 25.

Colonization of collagen scaffolds by adipocytes derived from mesenchymal stem
cells of the common marmoset monkey.

Bernemann I(1), Mueller T, Blasczyk R, Glasmacher B, Hofmann N.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Multiphase Processes, Leibniz Universität Hannover, Hannover,
Germany. bernemann@imp.uni-hannover.de

In regenerative medicine, human cell replacement therapy offers great potential, 
especially by cell types differentiated from immunologically and ethically
unproblematic mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs). In terms of an appropriate carrier
material, collagen scaffolds with homogeneous pore size of 65μm were optimal for 
cell seeding and cultivating. However, before clinical application and
transplantation of MSC-derived cells in scaffolds, the safety and efficiency, but
also possible interference in differentiation due to the material must be
preclinically tested. The common marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus) is a
preferable non-human primate animal model for this aim due to its genetic and
physiological similarities to the human. Marmoset bone marrow-derived MSCs were
successfully isolated, cultured and differentiated in suspension into adipogenic,
osteogenic and chondrogenic lineages by defined factors. The differentiation
capability could be determined by FACS. Specific marker genes for all three cell 
types could be detected by RT-PCR. Furthermore, MSCs seeded on collagen I
scaffolds differentiated in adipogenic lineage showed after 28days of
differentiation high cell viability and homogenous distribution on the material
which was validated by calcein AM and EthD staining. As proof of adipogenic
cells, the intracellular lipid vesicles in the cells were stained with Oil Red O.
The generation of fat vacuoles was visibly extensive distinguishable and
furthermore determined on the molecular level by expression of specific marker
genes. The results of the study proved both the differential potential of
marmoset MSCs in adipogenic, osteogenic and chondrogenic lineages and the
suitability of collagen scaffolds as carrier material undisturbing
differentiation of primate mesenchymal stem cells.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2011.06.134 
PMID: 21726528  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1858. Int J Neuropsychopharmacol. 2012 Feb;15(1):91-105. doi:
10.1017/S1461145711000587. Epub 2011 May 9.

Serotonin at the level of the amygdala and orbitofrontal cortex modulates
distinct aspects of positive emotion in primates.

Man MS(1), Mikheenko Y(1), Braesicke K(1), Cockcroft G(2), Roberts AC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Development and Neuroscience, University of
Cambridge, Downing Street, Cambridge, UK.
(2)Behavioural and Clinical Neurosciences Institute, University of Cambridge,
Downing Street, UK.

Impaired top-down regulation of the amygdala, and its modulation by serotonin
(5-HT), is strongly implicated in the dysregulation of negative emotion that
characterizes a number of affective disorders. However, the contribution of these
mechanisms to the regulation of positive emotion is not well understood. This
study investigated the role of 5-HT within the amygdala and the orbitofrontal
cortex (OFC), on the expression of appetitive Pavlovian conditioned emotional
responses and their reversal in a primate, the common marmoset. Its effects were 
compared to those of the amygdala itself. Having developed conditioned autonomic 
and behavioural responses to an appetitive cue prior to surgery, marmosets with
excitotoxic amygdala lesions failed to display such conditioned autonomic arousal
at retention, but still displayed intact cue-directed conditioned behaviours. In 
contrast, 5,7-DHT infusions into the amygdala, reducing extracellular 5-HT
levels, selectively enhanced the expression of appetitive conditioned behaviour
at retention. Similar infusions into the OFC, producing marked reductions in
post-mortem 5-HT tissue levels, had no overall effect on autonomic or behavioural
responses, either at retention or during reversal learning, but caused an
uncoupling of these responses, thereby fractionating emotional output. These data
demonstrate the critical role of the amygdala in the expression of appetitive
autonomic conditioning, and the region-selective contribution of 5-HT in the
amygdala and OFC, respectively, to the expression of conditioned behaviour and
the overall coordination of the emotional response. They provide insight into the
neurochemical mechanisms underlying the regulation of positive emotional
responses, advancing our understanding of the neural basis of pathologically
dysregulated emotion.

DOI: 10.1017/S1461145711000587 
PMCID: PMC3243904
PMID: 21726490  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

