

1890. Immunogenetics. 2011 Aug;63(8):485-99. doi: 10.1007/s00251-011-0526-8. Epub 2011 
Apr 20.

Comparative genome analysis of the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I
B/C segments in primates elucidated by genomic sequencing in common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus).

Shiina T(1), Kono A, Westphal N, Suzuki S, Hosomichi K, Kita YF, Roos C, Inoko H,
Walter L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Life Science, Division of Basic Medical Science and
Molecular Medicine, Tokai University School of Medicine, Shimokasuya, Isehara,
Kanagawa, Japan, tshiina@is.icc.u-tokai.ac.jp

Common marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) have emerged as important animal
models for biomedical research, necessitating a more extensive characterization
of their major histocompatibility complex (MHC) region. However, the genomic
information of the marmoset MHC (Caja) is still lacking. The MHC-B/C segment
represents the most diverse MHC region among primates. Therefore, in this paper, 
to elucidate the detailed gene organization and evolutionary processes of the
Caja class I B (Caja-B) segment, we determined two parts of the Caja-B sequences 
with 1,079 kb in total, ranging from H6orf15 to BAT1 and compared the structure
and phylogeny with that of other primates. This segment contains 54 genes in
total, nine Caja-B genes (Caja-B1 to Caja-B9), two MIC genes (MIC1 and MIC2),
eight non-MHC genes, two non-coding genes, and 33 non-MHC pseudogenes that have
not been observed in other primate MHC-B/C segments. Caja-B3, Caja-B4, and
Caja-B7 encode proper MHC class I proteins according to amino acid structural
characteristics. Phylogenetic relationships based on 48 MHC-I nucleotide
sequences in primates suggested (1) species-specific divergence for Caja, Mamu,
and HLA/Patr/Gogo lineages, (2) independent generation of the "seven coding exon"
type MHC-B genes in Mamu and HLA/Patr/Gogo lineages from an ancestral "eight
coding exon" type MHC-I gene, (3) parallel correlation with the long and short
segmental duplication unit length in Caja and Mamu lineages. These findings
indicate that the MHC-B/C segment has been under permanent selective pressure in 
the evolution of primates.

DOI: 10.1007/s00251-011-0526-8 
PMID: 21505866  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1891. J Morphol. 2011 Jul;272(7):833-49. doi: 10.1002/jmor.10951. Epub 2011 Apr 15.

The functional morphology of the anterior masticatory apparatus in tree-gouging
marmosets (Cebidae, Primates).

Hogg RT(1), Ravosa MJ, Ryan TM, Vinyard CJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology and Anatomical Sciences, University of Missouri,
Columbia, MO, USA. hoggr@health.missouri.edu

Although all genera of Callitrichinae feed on tree exudates, marmosets
(Callithrix and Cebuella) use specialized anterior teeth to gouge holes in trees 
and actively stimulate exudate flow. Behavioral studies demonstrate that
marmosets use large jaw gapes but do not appear to generate large bite forces
(relative to maximal ability) during gouging. Nonetheless, the anterior teeth of 
marmosets likely experience different loads during gouging compared to nongouging
platyrrhines. We use histological data from sectioned teeth, μCTs of jaws and
teeth, and in vitro tests of symphyseal strength to compare the anterior
masticatory apparatus in Callithrix to nongouging tamarins (Saguinus) and other
cebids. We test the hypotheses that (1) marmoset anterior teeth are adapted to
accommodate relatively high stresses linked to dissipating gouging forces and (2)
the mandibular symphysis does not provide increased load resistance ability
compared with closely related nongouging platyrrhines. Differences in decussation
between Callithrix and Saguinus are greatest in the anterior teeth, suggesting an
increased load resistance ability specifically in incisor and canine enamel of
Callithrix. Callithrix lower incisor crowns are labiolingually thicker suggesting
increased bending resistance in this plane and improved wedging ability compared 
with Saguinus. Anterior tooth roots are larger relative to symphyseal bone volume
in Callithrix. Anterior tooth root surface areas also are larger in marmosets for
their symphyseal volume, but it remains unclear whether this relative increase is
an adaptation for dissipating dental stresses versus a growth-related byproduct
of relatively elongated incisors. Finally, simulated jaw loading suggests a
reduced ability to withstand external forces in the Callithrix symphysis. The
contrast between increased load resistance ability in the anterior dentition
versus relatively reduced symphyseal strength (1) suggests a complex loading
environment during gouging, (2) highlights the possibility of distinct loading
patterns in the anterior teeth versus the symphysis, and (3) points to a
potential mosaic pattern of dentofacial adaptations to tree gouging.

Copyright © 2011 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jmor.10951 
PMID: 21500248  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

