

1903. ILAR J. 2011;52(1):78-88.

The development of small primate models for aging research.

Fischer KE, Austad SN(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, University of Texas Health Science Center in San
Antonio, USA.

Nonhuman primate (NHP) aging research has traditionally relied mainly on the
rhesus macaque. But the long lifespan, low reproductive rate, and relatively
large body size of macaques and related Old World monkeys make them less than
ideal models for aging research. Manifold advantages would attend the use of
smaller, more rapidly developing, shorter-lived NHP species in aging studies, not
the least of which are lower cost and the ability to do shorter research
projects. Arbitrarily defining "small" primates as those weighing less than 500
g, we assess small, relatively short-lived species among the prosimians and
callitrichids for suitability as models for human aging research. Using the
criteria of availability, knowledge about (and ease of) maintenance, the
possibility of genetic manipulation (a hallmark of 21st century biology), and
similarities to humans in the physiology of age-related changes, we suggest three
species--two prosimians (Microcebus murinus and Galago senegalensis) and one New 
World monkey (Callithrix jacchus)--that deserve scrutiny for development as major
NHP models for aging studies. We discuss one other New World monkey group, Cebus 
spp., that might also be an effective NHP model of aging as these species are
longer-lived for their body size than any primate except humans.

DOI: 10.1093/ilar.52.1.78 
PMCID: PMC4422641
PMID: 21411860  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1904. ILAR J. 2011;52(1):54-65.

The marmoset as a model of aging and age-related diseases.

Tardif SD(1), Mansfield KG, Ratnam R, Ross CN, Ziegler TE.

Author information: 
(1)Barshop Institute for Longevity and Aging Studies, University of Texas Health 
Science Center at San Antonio, 15355 Lambda Drive, STCBM Bldg 2.200.08, San
Antonio, TX 78245, USA. tardif@uthscsa.edu

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is poised to become a standard nonhuman 
primate aging model. With an average lifespan of 5 to 7 years and a maximum
lifespan of 16½ years, marmosets are the shortest-lived anthropoid primates. They
display age-related changes in pathologies that mirror those seen in humans, such
as cancer, amyloidosis, diabetes, and chronic renal disease. They also display
predictable age-related differences in lean mass, calf circumference, circulating
albumin, hemoglobin, and hematocrit. Features of spontaneous sensory and
neurodegenerative change--for example, reduced neurogenesis, ß-amyloid deposition
in the cerebral cortex, loss of calbindin D(28k) binding, and evidence of
presbycusis--appear between the ages of 7 and 10 years. Variation among colonies 
in the age at which neurodegenerative change occurs suggests the interesting
possibility that marmosets could be specifically managed to produce earlier
versus later occurrence of degenerative conditions associated with differing
rates of damage accumulation. In addition to the established value of the
marmoset as a model of age-related neurodegenerative change, this primate can
serve as a model of the integrated effects of aging and obesity on metabolic
dysfunction, as it displays evidence of such dysfunction associated with high
body weight as early as 6 to 8 years of age.

DOI: 10.1093/ilar.52.1.54 
PMCID: PMC3775658
PMID: 21411858  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

