

1905. J Neurosci. 2011 Mar 16;31(11):4290-7. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.5066-10.2011.

Dopamine, but not serotonin, regulates reversal learning in the marmoset caudate 
nucleus.

Clarke HF(1), Hill GJ, Robbins TW, Roberts AC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 
3EB, United Kingdom. hfc23@cam.ac.uk

Studies of visual discrimination reversal learning have revealed striking
neurochemical dissociations at the level of the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) with
serotoninergic, but not dopaminergic, integrity being important for successful
reversal learning. These findings have considerable implications for disorders
such as obsessive compulsive disorder and schizophrenia, in which reversal
learning is impaired, and which are primarily treated with drugs targeting the
dopaminergic and serotoninergic systems. Dysfunction in such disorders however,
is not limited to the OFC and extends subcortically to other structures
implicated in reversal learning, such as the medial caudate nucleus. Therefore,
because the roles of the serotonin and dopamine within the caudate nucleus are
poorly understood, this study compared the effects of selective serotoninergic or
selective dopaminergic depletions of the marmoset medial caudate nucleus on
serial discrimination reversal learning. All monkeys were able to learn novel
stimulus-reward associations but, unlike control monkeys and monkeys with
selective serotoninergic medial caudate depletions, dopamine-depleted monkeys
were markedly impaired in their ability to reverse this association. This
impairment was not perseverative in nature. These findings are the opposite of
those seen in the OFC and provide evidence for a neurochemical double
dissociation between the OFC and medial caudate in the regulation of reversal
learning. Although the specific contributions of these monoamines within the
OFC-striatal circuit remain to be elucidated, these findings have profound
implications for the development of drugs designed to remediate some of the
cognitive processes underlying impaired reversal learning.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.5066-10.2011 
PMCID: PMC3083841
PMID: 21411670  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1906. J Neurophysiol. 2011 Jun;105(6):2647-67. doi: 10.1152/jn.00238.2010. Epub 2011
Mar 16.

Correlation of neural response properties with auditory thalamus subdivisions in 
the awake marmoset.

Bartlett EL(1), Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland, USA. ebartle@purdue.edu

As the information bottleneck of nearly all auditory input that reaches the
cortex, the auditory thalamus serves as the basis for establishing auditory
cortical processing streams. The functional organization of the primary and
nonprimary subdivisions of the auditory thalamus is not well characterized,
particularly in awake primates. We have recorded from neurons in the auditory
thalamus of awake marmoset monkeys and tested their responses to tones, band-pass
noise, and temporally modulated stimuli. We analyzed the spectral and temporal
response properties of recorded neurons and correlated those properties with
their locations in the auditory thalamus, thereby forming the basis for parallel 
output channels. Three medial geniculate body (MGB) subdivisions were identified 
and studied physiologically and anatomically, although other medial subdivisions 
were also identified anatomically. Neurons in the ventral subdivision (MGV) were 
sharply tuned for frequency, preferred narrowband stimuli, and were able to
synchronize to rapid temporal modulations. Anterodorsal subdivision (MGAD)
neurons appeared well suited for temporal processing, responding similarly to
tone or noise stimuli but able to synchronize to the highest modulation
frequencies and with the highest temporal precision among MGB subdivisions.
Posterodorsal subdivision (MGPD) neurons differed substantially from the other
two subdivisions, with many neurons preferring broadband stimuli and signaling
changes in modulation frequency with nonsynchronized changes in firing rate. Most
neurons in all subdivisions responded to increases in tone sound level with
nonmonotonic changes in firing rate. MGV and MGAD neurons exhibited responses
consistent with provision of thalamocortical input to core regions, whereas MGPD 
neurons were consistent with provision of input to belt regions.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00238.2010 
PMCID: PMC3295207
PMID: 21411564  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

