

192. Neuroimage. 2021 Apr 1;229:117726. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2021.117726. Epub
2021 Jan 20.

The nonhuman primate neuroimaging and neuroanatomy project.

Hayashi T(1), Hou Y(2), Glasser MF(3), Autio JA(4), Knoblauch K(2),
Inoue-Murayama M(5), Coalson T(6), Yacoub E(7), Smith S(8), Kennedy H(9), Van
Essen DC(6).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Brain Connectomics Imaging, RIKEN Center for Biosystems
Dynamics Research, 6-7-3 MI R&D Center 3F, Minatojima-minamimachi, Chuo-ku, Kobe 
650-0047, Japan; Department of Neurobiology, Kyoto University Graduate School of 
Medicine, Kyoto, Japan.
(2)Inserm, Stem Cell and Brain Research Institute U1208, Univ Lyon, Université
Claude Bernard Lyon 1, Bron, France.
(3)Department of Neuroscience, Washington University Medical School, St Louis, MO
USA; Department of Neuroscience and Radiology, Washington University Medical
School, St Louis, MO USA.
(4)Laboratory for Brain Connectomics Imaging, RIKEN Center for Biosystems
Dynamics Research, 6-7-3 MI R&D Center 3F, Minatojima-minamimachi, Chuo-ku, Kobe 
650-0047, Japan.
(5)Wildlife Research Center, Kyoto University, Kyoto, Japan.
(6)Department of Neuroscience, Washington University Medical School, St Louis, MO
USA.
(7)Center for Magnetic Resonance Research, Department of Radiology, University of
Minnesota, Minneapolis, USA.
(8)Oxford Centre for Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging of the Brain (FMRIB), 
Wellcome Centre for Integrative Neuroimaging (WIN), Nuffield Department of
Clinical Neurosciences, Oxford University, Oxford, UK.
(9)Inserm, Stem Cell and Brain Research Institute U1208, Univ Lyon, Université
Claude Bernard Lyon 1, Bron, France; Institute of Neuroscience, State Key
Laboratory of Neuroscience, Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS) Key Laboratory of
Primate Neurobiology, CAS, Shanghai, China.

Multi-modal neuroimaging projects such as the Human Connectome Project (HCP) and 
UK Biobank are advancing our understanding of human brain architecture, function,
connectivity, and their variability across individuals using high-quality
non-invasive data from many subjects. Such efforts depend upon the accuracy of
non-invasive brain imaging measures. However, 'ground truth' validation of
connectivity using invasive tracers is not feasible in humans. Studies using
nonhuman primates (NHPs) enable comparisons between invasive and non-invasive
measures, including exploration of how "functional connectivity" from fMRI and
"tractographic connectivity" from diffusion MRI compare with long-distance
connections measured using tract tracing. Our NonHuman Primate Neuroimaging &
Neuroanatomy Project (NHP_NNP) is an international effort (6 laboratories in 5
countries) to: (i) acquire and analyze high-quality multi-modal brain imaging
data of macaque and marmoset monkeys using protocols and methods adapted from the
HCP; (ii) acquire quantitative invasive tract-tracing data for cortical and
subcortical projections to cortical areas; and (iii) map the distributions of
different brain cell types with immunocytochemical stains to better define brain 
areal boundaries. We are acquiring high-resolution structural, functional, and
diffusion MRI data together with behavioral measures from over 100 individual
macaques and marmosets in order to generate non-invasive measures of brain
architecture such as myelin and cortical thickness maps, as well as functional
and diffusion tractography-based connectomes. We are using classical and
next-generation anatomical tracers to generate quantitative connectivity maps
based on brain-wide counting of labeled cortical and subcortical neurons,
providing ground truth measures of connectivity. Advanced statistical modeling
techniques address the consistency of both kinds of data across individuals,
allowing comparison of tracer-based and non-invasive MRI-based connectivity
measures. We aim to develop improved cortical and subcortical areal atlases by
combining histological and imaging methods. Finally, we are collecting genetic
and sociality-associated behavioral data in all animals in an effort to
understand how genetic variation shapes the connectome and behavior.

Copyright © 2021 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2021.117726 
PMCID: PMC8079967
PMID: 33484849  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest All the authors
have no conflicts of interest to declare.


193. NPJ Parkinsons Dis. 2021 Jan 21;7(1):9. doi: 10.1038/s41531-020-00150-x.

Dysregulation of epithelial ion transport and neurochemical changes in the colon 
of a parkinsonian primate.

Coletto E(#)(1), Tough IR(#)(2), Pritchard S(3), Hikima A(1), Jackson MJ(1),
Jenner P(1), Ray Chaudhuri K(4)(5), Cox HM(2), Iravani MM(6), Rose S(7).

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Diseases Research Group, Institute of Cancer and
Pharmaceutical Sciences, Faculty of Life Sciences and Medicine, King's College
London, London, SE1 1UL, UK.
(2)Wolfson Centre for Age-Related Diseases, IoPPN, King's College London, Guy's
Campus, London, SE1 1UL, UK.
(3)Department of Clinical and Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of
Hertfordshire, Hatfield, AL10 9AB, UK.
(4)Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology & Neuroscience, King's College London,
London, SE5 8AF, UK.
(5)Parkinson Foundation International Centre of Excellence, King's College
Hospital, Denmark Hill, London, SE5 9RS, UK.
(6)Department of Clinical and Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of
Hertfordshire, Hatfield, AL10 9AB, UK. m.iravani@herts.ac.uk.
(7)Neurodegenerative Diseases Research Group, Institute of Cancer and
Pharmaceutical Sciences, Faculty of Life Sciences and Medicine, King's College
London, London, SE1 1UL, UK. sarah.salvage@kcl.ac.uk.
(#)Contributed equally

The pathological changes underlying gastrointestinal (GI) dysfunction in
Parkinson's disease (PD) are poorly understood and the symptoms remain
inadequately treated. In this study we compared the functional and neurochemical 
changes in the enteric nervous system in the colon of adult, L-DOPA-responsive,
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated common marmoset, with
naïve controls. Measurement of mucosal vectorial ion transport, spontaneous
longitudinal smooth muscle activity and immunohistochemical assessment of
intrinsic innervation were each performed in discrete colonic regions of naïve
and MPTP-treated marmosets. The basal short circuit current (Isc) was lower in
MPTP-treated colonic mucosa while mucosal resistance was unchanged. There was no 
difference in basal cholinergic tone, however, there was an increased excitatory 
cholinergic response in MPTP-treated tissues when NOS was blocked with
L-Nω-nitroarginine. The amplitude and frequency of spontaneous contractions in
longitudinal smooth muscle as well as carbachol-evoked post-junctional
contractile responses were unaltered, despite a decrease in choline
acetyltransferase and an increase in the vasoactive intestinal polypeptide neuron
numbers per ganglion in the proximal colon. There was a low-level inflammation in
the proximal but not the distal colon accompanied by a change in α-synuclein
immunoreactivity. This study suggests that MPTP treatment produces long-term
alterations in colonic mucosal function associated with amplified muscarinic
mucosal activity but decreased cholinergic innervation in myenteric plexi and
increased nitrergic enteric neurotransmission. This suggests that long-term
changes in either central or peripheral dopaminergic neurotransmission may lead
to adaptive changes in colonic function resulting in alterations in ion transport
across mucosal epithelia that may result in GI dysfunction in PD.

DOI: 10.1038/s41531-020-00150-x 
PMCID: PMC7820491
PMID: 33479243 

