

1922. Nucleic Acids Res. 2011 May;39(9):3710-23. doi: 10.1093/nar/gkq1325. Epub 2011
Jan 18.

Species-specific microRNA roles elucidated following astrocyte activation.

Mor E(1), Cabilly Y, Goldshmit Y, Zalts H, Modai S, Edry L, Elroy-Stein O,
Shomron N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell and Developmental Biology, Sackler Faculty of Medicine,
George S. Wise Faculty of Life Sciences, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv 69978,
Israel.

MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are short non-coding RNAs that play a central role in
regulation of gene expression by binding to target genes. Many miRNAs were
associated with the function of the central nervous system (CNS) in health and
disease. Astrocytes are the CNS most abundant glia cells, providing support by
maintaining homeostasis and by regulating neuronal signaling, survival and
synaptic plasticity. Astrocytes play a key role in repair of brain insults, as
part of local immune reactivity triggered by inflammatory or pathological
conditions. Thus, astrocyte activation, or astrogliosis, is an important outcome 
of the innate immune response, which can be elicited by endotoxins such as
lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and cytokines such as interferon-gamma (IFN-γ). The
involvement of miRNAs in inflammation and stress led us to hypothesize that
astrogliosis is mediated by miRNA function. In this study, we compared the miRNA 
regulatory layer expressed in primary cultured astrocyte derived from rodents
(mice) and primates (marmosets) brains upon exposure to LPS and IFN-γ. We
identified subsets of differentially expressed miRNAs some of which are shared
with other immunological related systems while others, surprisingly, are mouse
and rat specific. Of interest, these specific miRNAs regulate genes involved in
the tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) signaling pathway, indicating a
miRNA-based species-specific regulation. Our data suggests that miRNA function is
more significant in the mechanisms governing astrocyte activation in rodents
compared to primates.

© The Author(s) 2011. Published by Oxford University Press.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/gkq1325 
PMCID: PMC3089466
PMID: 21247879  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1923. J Comp Neurol. 2011 Mar 1;519(4):690-713. doi: 10.1002/cne.22543.

Cellular composition and organization of the subventricular zone and rostral
migratory stream in the adult and neonatal common marmoset brain.

Sawamoto K(1), Hirota Y, Alfaro-Cervello C, Soriano-Navarro M, He X,
Hayakawa-Yano Y, Yamada M, Hikishima K, Tabata H, Iwanami A, Nakajima K, Toyama
Y, Itoh T, Alvarez-Buylla A, Garcia-Verdugo JM, Okano H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Developmental and Regenerative Biology, Nagoya City University
Graduate School of Medical Sciences, Nagoya, Aichi 467-8601, Japan.
sawamoto@med.nagoya-cu.ac.jp

The adult subventricular zone (SVZ) of the lateral ventricle contains neural stem
cells. In rodents, these cells generate neuroblasts that migrate as chains toward
the olfactory bulb along the rostral migratory stream (RMS). The neural-stem-cell
niche at the ventricular wall is conserved in various animal species, including
primates. However, it is unclear how the SVZ and RMS organization in nonhuman
primates relates to that of rodents and humans. Here we studied the SVZ and RMS
of the adult and neonatal common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a New World
primate used widely in neuroscience, by electron microscopy, and
immunohistochemical detection of cell-type-specific markers. The marmoset SVZ
contained cells similar to type B, C, and A cells of the rodent SVZ in their
marker expression and morphology. The adult marmoset SVZ had a three-layer
organization, as in the human brain, with ependymal, hypocellular, and
astrocyte-ribbon layers. However, the hypocellular layer was very thin or absent 
in the adult-anterior and neonatal SVZ. Anti-PSA-NCAM staining of the anterior
SVZ in whole-mount ventricular wall preparations of adult marmosets revealed an
extensive network of elongated cell aggregates similar to the neuroblast chains
in rodents. Time-lapse recordings of marmoset SVZ explants cultured in Matrigel
showed the neuroblasts migrating in chains, like rodent type A cells. These
results suggest that some features of neurogenesis and neuronal migration in the 
SVZ are common to marmosets, humans, and rodents. This basic description of the
adult and neonatal marmoset SVZ will be useful for future studies on adult
neurogenesis in primates.

Copyright © 2010 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.22543 
PMCID: PMC4096931
PMID: 21246550  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

