

1923. J Comp Neurol. 2011 Mar 1;519(4):690-713. doi: 10.1002/cne.22543.

Cellular composition and organization of the subventricular zone and rostral
migratory stream in the adult and neonatal common marmoset brain.

Sawamoto K(1), Hirota Y, Alfaro-Cervello C, Soriano-Navarro M, He X,
Hayakawa-Yano Y, Yamada M, Hikishima K, Tabata H, Iwanami A, Nakajima K, Toyama
Y, Itoh T, Alvarez-Buylla A, Garcia-Verdugo JM, Okano H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Developmental and Regenerative Biology, Nagoya City University
Graduate School of Medical Sciences, Nagoya, Aichi 467-8601, Japan.
sawamoto@med.nagoya-cu.ac.jp

The adult subventricular zone (SVZ) of the lateral ventricle contains neural stem
cells. In rodents, these cells generate neuroblasts that migrate as chains toward
the olfactory bulb along the rostral migratory stream (RMS). The neural-stem-cell
niche at the ventricular wall is conserved in various animal species, including
primates. However, it is unclear how the SVZ and RMS organization in nonhuman
primates relates to that of rodents and humans. Here we studied the SVZ and RMS
of the adult and neonatal common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a New World
primate used widely in neuroscience, by electron microscopy, and
immunohistochemical detection of cell-type-specific markers. The marmoset SVZ
contained cells similar to type B, C, and A cells of the rodent SVZ in their
marker expression and morphology. The adult marmoset SVZ had a three-layer
organization, as in the human brain, with ependymal, hypocellular, and
astrocyte-ribbon layers. However, the hypocellular layer was very thin or absent 
in the adult-anterior and neonatal SVZ. Anti-PSA-NCAM staining of the anterior
SVZ in whole-mount ventricular wall preparations of adult marmosets revealed an
extensive network of elongated cell aggregates similar to the neuroblast chains
in rodents. Time-lapse recordings of marmoset SVZ explants cultured in Matrigel
showed the neuroblasts migrating in chains, like rodent type A cells. These
results suggest that some features of neurogenesis and neuronal migration in the 
SVZ are common to marmosets, humans, and rodents. This basic description of the
adult and neonatal marmoset SVZ will be useful for future studies on adult
neurogenesis in primates.

Copyright © 2010 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.22543 
PMCID: PMC4096931
PMID: 21246550  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1924. Prog Neuropsychopharmacol Biol Psychiatry. 2011 Aug 1;35(6):1493-8. doi:
10.1016/j.pnpbp.2011.01.008. Epub 2011 Jan 14.

Effects of constant daylight exposure during early development on marmoset
psychosocial behavior.

Senoo A(1), Okuya T, Sugiura Y, Mimura K, Honda Y, Tanaka I, Kodama T, Tokuno H, 
Yui K, Nakamura S, Usui S, Koshiba M.

Author information: 
(1)Tokyo University of Agriculture and Technology, Tokyo, 184-8588, Japan.

Due to global industrialization, the light cycle is shifting to longer daytime.
Mounting evidence indicates that social developmental disorders may correlate
with longer periods of daytime in childhood. However, the exact mechanisms of
this link remain unclear. To examine the impact of longer day-time on
psychosocial development, we developed a novel non-human primate model, using the
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) reared under constant daylight from birth.
Marmosets were reared individually by human nursing under constant light (LL)
during varying periods in juvenile development, and their behaviors were compared
with those of normal day-night cycle (LD) marmosets by multivariate analysis
based on principal component analysis (PCA). LL marmosets elicited egg-like calls
(e-call) less in juvenile period, and displayed side-to-side shakes of the upper 
body with rapid head rotation through adulthood frequently. Based on the PCA,
these behaviors were interpreted as 'alert' or 'hyperactive' states.
Additionally, behavioral development of marmosets reared under constant dark (DD)
was markedly different from both LD and LL marmosets, suggesting the fundamental 
importance of daylight-dependent neuronal and endocrine processes and entrainment
by a constant 24-hour light/dark cycle on psychosocial behavior development.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pnpbp.2011.01.008 
PMID: 21238530  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

