

1928. Behav Brain Funct. 2011 Jan 4;7:1. doi: 10.1186/1744-9081-7-1.

Activity-dependent regulation of MHC class I expression in the developing primary
visual cortex of the common marmoset monkey.

Ribic A(1), Flügge G, Schlumbohm C, Mätz-Rensing K, Walter L, Fuchs E.

Author information: 
(1)German Primate Center/Leibniz Institute for Primate Research, Göttingen,
Germany. aribic@cnl-dpz.de

BACKGROUND: Several recent studies have highlighted the important role of
immunity-related molecules in synaptic plasticity processes in the developing and
adult mammalian brains. It has been suggested that neuronal MHCI (major
histocompatibility complex class I) genes play a role in the refinement and
pruning of synapses in the developing visual system. As a fast evolutionary rate 
may generate distinct properties of molecules in different mammalian species, we 
studied the expression of MHCI molecules in a nonhuman primate, the common
marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus).
METHODS AND RESULTS: Analysis of expression levels of MHCI molecules in the
developing visual cortex of the common marmoset monkeys revealed a distinct
spatio-temporal pattern. High levels of expression were detected very early in
postnatal development, at a stage when synaptogenesis takes place and ocular
dominance columns are formed. To determine whether the expression of MHCI
molecules is regulated by retinal activity, animals were subjected to monocular
enucleation. Levels of MHCI heavy chain subunit transcripts in the visual cortex 
were found to be elevated in response to monocular enucleation. Furthermore, MHCI
heavy chain immunoreactivity revealed a banded pattern in layer IV of the visual 
cortex in enucleated animals, which was not observed in control animals. This
pattern of immunoreactivity indicated that higher expression levels were
associated with retinal activity coming from the intact eye.
CONCLUSIONS: These data demonstrate that, in the nonhuman primate brain,
expression of MHCI molecules is regulated by neuronal activity. Moreover, this
study extends previous findings by suggesting a role for neuronal MHCI molecules 
during synaptogenesis in the visual cortex.

DOI: 10.1186/1744-9081-7-1 
PMCID: PMC3023691
PMID: 21205317  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1929. ILAR J. 2011;52(3):386-92. doi: 10.1093/ilar.52.3.386.

Workshop summary: neotropical primates in biomedical research.

Tardif SD, Abee CR, Mansfield KG.

This report summarizes presentations and discussions at an NIH-sponsored workshop
on Neotropical Primates in Biomedical Research, held in September 2010.
Neotropical primates (New World monkeys), with their smaller size, faster
maturation, and shorter lifespans than Old World monkeys, are efficient models
and present unique opportunities for studying human health and disease. After
overviews of the most commonly used neotropical species-squirrel monkeys,
marmosets, and owl monkeys-speakers described the use of neotropical primates in 
specific areas of immunology, infectious disease, neuroscience, and physiology
research. Presentations addressed the development of new research tools:
immune-based reagents, fMRI technologies suited to these small primates,
sequencing of the marmoset genome, the first germline transgenic monkey, and
neotropical primate induced pluripotent stem cells. In the discussions after the 
presentations, participants identified challenges to both continued use and
development of new uses of neotropical primates in research and suggested the
following actions to address the challenges: (1) mechanisms to support breeding
colonies of some neotropical species to ensure a well-characterized domestic
source; (2) resources for the continuing development of critical research tools
to improve the immunological and hormonal characterization of neotropical
primates; (3) improved opportunities for networking among investigators who use
neotropical primates, training and other measures to improve colony and
veterinary management, and continued research on neotropical primate management
and veterinary care issues; (4) support for development activities to produce
models that are more affordable and more efficient for moving research "from
benchside to bedside"; and (5) establishment of a small program that would fund
"orphan" species.

DOI: 10.1093/ilar.52.3.386 
PMID: 23382152  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

