

1932. Front Integr Neurosci. 2010 Dec 14;4:128. doi: 10.3389/fnint.2010.00128.
eCollection 2010.

Vocalization Induced CFos Expression in Marmoset Cortex.

Miller CT(1), Dimauro A, Pistorio A, Hendry S, Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
School of Medicine, Johns Hopkins University Baltimore, MD, USA.

All non-human primates communicate with conspecifics using vocalizations, a
system involving both the production and perception of species-specific vocal
signals. Much of the work on the neural basis of primate vocal communication in
cortex has focused on the sensory processing of vocalizations, while relatively
little data are available for vocal production. Earlier physiological studies in 
squirrel monkeys had shed doubts on the involvement of primate cortex in vocal
behaviors. The aim of the present study was to identify areas of common marmoset 
(Callithrix jacchus) cortex that are potentially involved in vocal communication.
In this study, we quantified cFos expression in three areas of marmoset cortex - 
frontal, temporal (auditory), and medial temporal - under various vocal
conditions. Specifically, we examined cFos expression in these cortical areas
during the sensory, motor (vocal production), and sensory-motor components of
vocal communication. Our results showed an increase in cFos expression in
ventrolateral prefrontal cortex as well as the medial and lateral belt areas of
auditory cortex in the vocal perception condition. In contrast, subjects in the
vocal production condition resulted in increased cFos expression only in dorsal
premotor cortex. During the sensory-motor condition (antiphonal calling),
subjects exhibited cFos expression in each of the above areas, as well as
increased expression in perirhinal cortex. Overall, these results suggest that
various cortical areas outside primary auditory cortex are involved in primate
vocal communication. These findings pave the way for further physiological
studies of the neural basis of primate vocal communication.

DOI: 10.3389/fnint.2010.00128 
PMCID: PMC3004388
PMID: 21179582 


1933. Obesity (Silver Spring). 2011 Jun;19(6):1145-56. doi: 10.1038/oby.2010.303. Epub 
2010 Dec 16.

Differential contribution of dietary fat and monosaccharide to metabolic syndrome
in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Wachtman LM(1), Kramer JA, Miller AD, Hachey AM, Curran EH, Mansfield KG.

Author information: 
(1)Harvard Medical School, New England Primate Research Center, Southborough,
Massachusetts, USA. Lynn_wachtman@hms.harvard.edu

There is a critical need for animal models to study aspects type 2 diabetes (T2D)
pathogenesis and prevention. While the rhesus macaque is such an established
model, the common marmoset has added benefits including reduced zoonotic risks,
shorter life span, and a predisposition to birth twins demonstrating chimerism.
The marmoset as a model organism for the study of metabolic syndrome has not been
fully evaluated. Marmosets fed high-fat or glucose-enriched diets were followed
longitudinally to observe effects on morphometric and metabolic measures. Effects
on pancreatic histomorphometry and vascular pathology were examined terminally.
The glucose-enriched diet group developed an obese phenotype and a prolonged
hyperglycemic state evidenced by a rapid and persistent increase in mean
glycosylated hemoglobin (HgbA1c) observed as early as week 16. In contrast,
marmosets fed a high-fat diet did not maintain an obese phenotype and
demonstrated a delayed increase in HgbA1) that did not reach statistical
significance until week 40. Consumption of either diet resulted in profound
pancreatic islet hyperplasia suggesting a compensation for increased insulin
requirements. Although the high-fat diet group developed atherosclerosis of
increased severity, the presence of lesions correlated with glucose intolerance
only in the glucose-enriched diet group. The altered timing of glucose
dysregulation, differential contribution to obesity, and variation in vascular
pathology suggests mechanisms of effect specific to dietary nutrient content.
Feeding nutritionally modified diets to common marmosets recapitulates aspects of
metabolic disease and represents a model that may prove instrumental to
elucidating the contribution of nutrient excess to disease development.

DOI: 10.1038/oby.2010.303 
PMCID: PMC3099141
PMID: 21164504  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

