

1934. In Vivo. 2010 Nov-Dec;24(6):827-36.

Circadian profile of peripheral hormone levels in Sprague-Dawley rats and in
common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Bertani S(1), Carboni L, Criado A, Michielin F, Mangiarini L, Vicentini E.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory Animal Science Department, Medicine Research Center, Verona, Italy.
SIMONE.BERTANI@APTUIT.COM

AIM: in the present study, we report the circadian profiles of a wide panel of
hormones measured in rats and common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus), under
physiological conditions, paying special attention to minimising the stress
imposed on the animals.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: blood collections were performed over a 24-hour period for
the analysis of stress and pituitary hormones, metabolic markers and cytokines
from male cannulated rats connected to a fully automatic system, and healthy
marmosets in which gender differences were also evaluated.
RESULTS: in rats, a significant time effect was observed for corticosterone,
prolactin (PRL), thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH), growth hormone,
follicle-stimulating hormone, brain-derived neurotrophic factor, total ghrelin,
insulin, leptin, insulin-like growth factor-1, adiponectin and interleukin-10. In
marmosets, a significant time effect for cortisol, adrenocorticotropic hormone
(ACTH), PRL and TSH, with gender effect for ACTH and PRL only, was observed. On
the contrary, luteinizing hormone in the rat and active ghrelin, peptide YY,
pancreatic polypeptide and gastric inhibitory polypeptide in the marmoset did not
show any significant circadian variation.
CONCLUSION: the present work confirmed that, due to time-of-day dependent
modulation of hormones, circadian rhythmicity is relevant in physiological
studies and should also be taken into consideration when performing
pharmacological studies.


PMID: 21164040  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1935. J Vis. 2010 Dec 16;10(14):15. doi: 10.1167/10.14.15.

A simple method for creating wide-field visual stimulus for electrophysiology:
mapping and analyzing receptive fields using a hemispheric display.

Yu HH(1), Rosa MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Monash Vision Group, Monash University, Clayton, 
VIC, Australia. hhyu00@gmail.com

Modern neurophysiological and psychophysical studies of vision are typically
based on computer-generated stimuli presented on flat screens. While this
approach allows precise delivery of stimuli, it suffers from a fundamental
limitation in terms of the maximum achievable spatial coverage. This constraint
becomes important in studies that require stimulation of large expanses of the
visual field, such as those involving the mapping of receptive fields throughout 
the extent of a cortical area or subcortical nucleus, or those comparing neural
response properties across a wide range of eccentricities. Here we describe a
simple and highly cost-effective method for the projection of computer-generated 
stimuli on a hemispheric screen, which combines the advantages of computerized
control and wide-field (100° × 75°) delivery, without the requirement of highly
specialized hardware. The description of the method includes programming
techniques for the generation of stimuli in spherical coordinates and for the
quantitative determination of receptive field sizes and shapes. The value of this
approach is demonstrated by quantitative electrophysiological data obtained in
the far peripheral representations of various cortical areas, including automated
mapping of receptive field extents in cortex that underwent plasticity following 
lesions.

DOI: 10.1167/10.14.15 
PMID: 21163958  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

