

1944. Stem Cells Dev. 2011 Sep;20(9):1587-99. doi: 10.1089/scd.2010.0351. Epub 2011 Jan
16.

Gene targeting and subsequent site-specific transgenesis at the β-actin (ACTB)
locus in common marmoset embryonic stem cells.

Shiozawa S(1), Kawai K, Okada Y, Tomioka I, Maeda T, Kanda A, Shinohara H,
Suemizu H, James Okano H, Sotomaru Y, Sasaki E, Okano H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, School of Medicine, Keio University, Tokyo, Japan.

Nonhuman primate embryonic stem (ES) cells have vast promise for preclinical
studies. Genetic modification in nonhuman primate ES cells is an essential
technique for maximizing the potential of these cells. The common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus), a nonhuman primate, is expected to be a useful transgenic
model for preclinical studies. However, genetic modification in common marmoset
ES (cmES) cells has not yet been adequately developed. To establish efficient and
stable genetic modifications in cmES cells, we inserted the enhanced green
fluorescent protein (EGFP) gene with heterotypic lox sites into the β-actin
(ACTB) locus of the cmES cells using gene targeting. The resulting knock-in ES
cells expressed EGFP ubiquitously under the control of the endogenous ACTB
promoter. Using inserted heterotypic lox sites, we demonstrated Cre
recombinase-mediated cassette exchange (RMCE) and successfully established a
monomeric red fluorescent protein (mRFP) knock-in cmES cell line. Further, a
herpes simplex virus-thymidine kinase (HSV-tk) knock-in cmES cell line was
established using RMCE. The growth of tumor cells originating from the cell line 
was significantly suppressed by the administration of ganciclovir. Therefore, the
HSV-tk/ganciclovir system is promising as a safeguard for stem cell therapy. The 
stable and ubiquitous expression of EGFP before RMCE enables cell fate to be
tracked when the cells are transplanted into an animal. Moreover, the creation of
a transgene acceptor locus for site-specific transgenesis will be a powerful
tool, similar to the ROSA26 locus in mice.

DOI: 10.1089/scd.2010.0351 
PMID: 21126169  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1945. Fertil Steril. 2011 Mar 15;95(4):1428-34. doi: 10.1016/j.fertnstert.2010.11.003. 
Epub 2010 Dec 3.

Advanced follicle development in xenografted prepubertal ovarian tissue: the
common marmoset as a nonhuman primate model for ovarian tissue transplantation.

von Schönfeldt V(1), Chandolia R, Kiesel L, Nieschlag E, Schlatt S, Sonntag B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Campus Grosshadern,
Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität Munich, Munich, Germany.

OBJECTIVE: To establish a nonhuman primate model addressing follicular
development in cryopreserved prepubertal ovarian tissue after xenografting.
DESIGN: Experimental study.
SETTING: Academic research center.
ANIMAL(S): Ovarian tissue from female prepubertal common marmoset (Callytrix
jacchus jacchus) grafted into immunodeficient nude mice (Crl:NU-FoxnI(nu)).
INTERVENTION(S): Removal and subsequent cryopreservation of ovarian tissues with 
dimethyl sulfoxide, followed by grafting to subcutaneous sites of ovariectomized 
and intact nude mice.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE(S): Histologic evaluation for the mean number of total and
morphologically normal follicles in each class.
RESULT(S): The mean number of unadvanced follicles in frozen-thawed grafted
ovarian tissues was reduced compared with pregraft controls, but the prevalence
of normal follicular morphology was either slightly increased (primordial
follicles) or unchanged (primary follicles). Previous ovariectomy in graft
recipients increased total follicle numbers without effect on normal follicular
morphology and shifted the ratio of primordial to primary follicles toward an
increase in primary follicles, indicating activation of follicular maturation.
CONCLUSION(S): The marmoset is a suitable primate model for studies on the
subsequent use of cryopreserved ovarian tissue, demonstrating graft sustainment
and the development of follicles from prepubertal ovarian tissue in
immunodeficient hosts up to secondary and preantral stages.

Copyright © 2011 American Society for Reproductive Medicine. Published by
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fertnstert.2010.11.003 
PMID: 21122840  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

