

1967. J Zoo Wildl Med. 2010 Sep;41(3):389-94.

Comparison of racemic ketamine versus (S+) ketamine when combined with midazolam 
for anesthesia of Callithrix jacchus and Callithrix penicillata.

Furtado MM(1), Nunes AL, Intelizano TR, Teixeira RH, Cortopassi SR.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Medicina Veterinária Preventiva e Saúde Animal, Faculdade de
Medicina Veterinária e Zootecnia, Universidade de São Paulo, Brazil.
marianafurtado@jaguar.org.br

Ten common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) and 10 black-tufted marmosets
(Callithrix penicillata) were immobilized to compare the anesthetic effects of
racemic ketamine and (S+) ketamine in combination with midazolam. The animals
were distributed into four groups: five common marmosets (group CJR) and five
black-tufted marmosets (group CPR) received 9.8 +/- 1.4 mg/kg of racemic
ketamine, and five common marmosets (group CJS) and five black-tufted marmosets
(group CPS) received 10.4 +/- 1.6 mg/kg of (S+) ketamine. All groups received
similar dosages of midazolam (1.0 +/- 0.15 mg/kg). During immobilization, heart
rates, respiratory rates, rectal temperatures, and muscle relaxation scores were 
recorded at 5, 10, and 20 min after initial injection. Quality of induction and
quality of recovery were evaluated in each marmoset by recording physical
reactions including withdrawal reflexes, involuntary movements, salivation,
compulsive licking, catalepsy, and ataxia. There were no significant differences 
in the induction, immobilization, and recovery times between the four groups.
Similarly, there were no significant differences between groups in heart rates,
respiratory rates, or body temperatures, although there was a significant
decrease in respiratory rates over time in group CPR. In addition, the CJR and
CPS groups showed significant decreases over time in rectal temperature. Muscle
relaxation was more profound in the CPR group than in the other groups.
Compulsive licking, involuntary movements, salivation, and withdrawal reflexes
were observed more frequently in animals given S(+) ketamine; but in general,
racemic ketamine and S(+) ketamine had similar effects in all callitrichines.
Further studies are required to confirm that S(+) ketamine has different potency 
in these species.

DOI: 10.1638/2008-0016.1 
PMID: 20945634  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1968. J Vis. 2010 Jul 1;10(8):1. doi: 10.1167/10.8.1.

Receptive field asymmetries produce color-dependent direction selectivity in
primate lateral geniculate nucleus.

Tailby C(1), Dobbie WJ, Solomon SG, Szmajda BA, Hashemi-Nezhad M, Forte JD,
Martin PR.

Author information: 
(1)Save Sight Institute and ARC Centre of Excellence in Vision Science,
University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW, Australia. ctailby@unimelb.edu.au

Blue-on receptive fields recorded in primate retina and lateral geniculate
nucleus are customarily described as showing overlapping blue-on and yellow-off
receptive field components. However, the retinal pathways feeding the blue-on and
yellow-off subfields arise from spatially discrete receptor populations, and
recent studies have given contradictory accounts of receptive field structure of 
blue-on cells. Here we analyzed responses of blue-on cells to drifting gratings, 
in single-cell extracellular recordings from the dorsal lateral geniculate
nucleus in marmosets. We show that most blue-on cells exhibit selectivity for the
drift direction of achromatic gratings. The standard concentric
difference-of-Gaussians (DOG) model thus cannot account for responses of these
cells. We apply a simple, anatomically plausible, extension of the DOG model. The
model incorporates temporally offset elliptical two-dimensional Gaussian
subfields. The model can predict color-contingent direction and spatial tuning.
Because direction tuning in blue-on cells depends on stimulus chromaticity,
spatial frequency, and temporal frequency, this property is of little value as a 
general mechanism for image movement detection. It is possible that anatomical
wiring for color selectivity has constrained the capacity of blue-on cells to
contribute to spatial and motion vision.

DOI: 10.1167/10.8.1 
PMID: 20884576  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

