

2002. J Comp Neurol. 2010 Jul 1;518(13):2633-44. doi: 10.1002/cne.22356.

SPP1 is expressed in corticospinal neurons of the macaque sensorimotor cortex.

Higo N(1), Sato A, Yamamoto T, Nishimura Y, Oishi T, Murata Y, Onoe H,
Yoshino-Saito K, Tsuboi F, Takahashi M, Isa T, Kojima T.

Author information: 
(1)Neuroscience Research Institute, National Institute of Advanced Industrial
Science and Technology (AIST), Umezono, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-8568, Japan.
n.higo@aist.go.jp

The cellular distribution of SPP1, which we recently identified as a gene with
greater expression in the macaque primary motor cortex than in the premotor or
prefrontal cortices, was examined in rhesus macaque, common marmoset, and rat
brains. In situ hybridization histochemistry revealed that SPP1 mRNA was
expressed specifically in pyramidal neurons in layer V of the sensorimotor cortex
of the rhesus macaque. These SPP1 mRNA-positive neurons were most abundant in the
primary motor area, followed by Brodmann area 5 and the supplementary motor area,
in accordance with the distribution of corticospinal neurons. In addition,
injection of a retrograde neuroanatomical tracer into the lateral corticospinal
tract (CST) of the spinal cord caused labeling of SPP1 positive neurons,
indicating the expression of SPP1 in corticospinal neurons. SPP1 was also
expressed in the thalamus, brainstem, and spinal ventral horn of the rhesus
macaque. Although SPP1 was also detected in the brainstem and spinal cord of the 
marmoset and the rat, it was not detected in their cerebral cortices. Selective
expression in the corticospinal neurons of the sensorimotor cortex of the rhesus 
macaque suggests that SPP1 plays a critical role in the functional or structural 
specialization of highly developed corticospinal systems in certain primate
species.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.22356 
PMID: 20503431  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2003. J Neurotrauma. 2010 Jul;27(7):1321-32. doi: 10.1089/neu.2010.1294.

Upregulation of EphA4 on astrocytes potentially mediates astrocytic gliosis after
cortical lesion in the marmoset monkey.

Goldshmit Y(1), Bourne J.

Author information: 
(1)Australian Regenerative Medicine Institute, Monash University, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia. yona.goldshmit@med.monash.edu.au

Glial scar formation occurs in response to brain injury in mammalian models and
inhibits axonal growth. Identification of molecules that may mediate reactivity
of astrocytes has become a leading therapeutic goal in the field of neurotrauma. 
In adult rodent brain and spinal cord, many of the Eph receptors and their ephrin
ligands have been demonstrated to be upregulated on reactive astrocytes at the
injury site; however, little is known about the expression of these molecules in 
nonhuman primate injury models. This study examines the role of the tyrosine
kinase EphA4 receptor, which predominantly binds most ephrin ligands, after
injury in marmoset monkey brain. Following lesioning of the primary visual cortex
(V1) in the adult marmoset, EphA4 is strongly upregulated on reactive astrocytes 
around the lesion site, which secrete extracellular matrix molecules such as
chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans, which are known for their inhibitory effect on
axonal growth and regeneration. This astrocyte reactivity was also associated
with neuronal death in the area adjacent to the lesion site. EphA4 activation
induced by clustered ephrin A5-Fc-mediated astrocyte proliferation and glial
fibrillary acidic protein expression in vitro, as demonstrated by closure of
scratched wound and MTT assays, occurs via two potential signaling pathways, the 
mitogen-activated protein kinase and Rho pathways. These results in a nonhuman
primate model highlight the importance of developing pharmacotherapeutic
approaches to block these molecules following brain injury.

DOI: 10.1089/neu.2010.1294 
PMID: 20486805  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

