

201. Netw Neurosci. 2020 Dec 1;4(4):1181-1196. doi: 10.1162/netn_a_00159. eCollection 
2020.

Network topology of the marmoset connectome.

Liu ZQ(1), Zheng YQ(2), Misic B(1).

Author information: 
(1)McConnell Brain Imaging Centre, Montréal Neurological Institute, McGill
University, Montréal, Quebec, Canada.
(2)Biomedical Engineering, University of Oxford, Oxford, United Kingdom.

The brain is a complex network of interconnected and interacting neuronal
populations. Global efforts to understand the emergence of behavior and the
effect of perturbations depend on accurate reconstruction of white matter
pathways, both in humans and in model organisms. An emerging animal model for
next-generation applied neuroscience is the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).
A recent open respository of retrograde and anterograde tract tracing presents an
opportunity to systematically study the network architecture of the marmoset
brain (Marmoset Brain Architecture Project; http://www.marmosetbrain.org). Here
we comprehensively chart the topological organization of the mesoscale marmoset
cortico-cortical connectome. The network possesses multiple nonrandom attributes 
that promote a balance between segregation and integration, including
near-minimal path length, multiscale community structure, a connective core, a
unique motif composition, and multiple cavities. Altogether, these structural
attributes suggest a link between network architecture and function. Our findings
are consistent with previous reports across a range of species, scales, and
reconstruction technologies, suggesting a small set of organizational principles 
universal across phylogeny. Collectively, these results provide a foundation for 
future anatomical, functional, and behavioral studies in this model organism.

© 2020 Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

DOI: 10.1162/netn_a_00159 
PMCID: PMC7781610
PMID: 33409435 

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared
that no competing interests exist.


202. Front Neural Circuits. 2020 Dec 21;14:612595. doi: 10.3389/fncir.2020.612595.
eCollection 2020.

Dynamic Interhemispheric Desynchronization in Marmosets and Humans With Disorders
of the Corpus Callosum.

Szczupak D(1)(2), Yen CC(2), Liu C(1)(2)(3), Tian X(1)(2), Lent R(4)(5),
Tovar-Moll F(4)(5), Silva AC(1)(2); IRC5 Consortium.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, University Pittsburgh Brain Institute, University 
of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, United States.
(2)Cerebral Microcirculation Section, Laboratory of Functional and Molecular
Imaging, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, United States.
(3)Institute of Neuroscience, CAS Center for Excellence in Brain Science and
Intelligence Technology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shanghai, China.
(4)Instituto de Ciências Biomédicas, Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro, Rio 
de Janeiro, Brazil.
(5)Instituto D'Or de Pesquisa e Ensino, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.

The corpus callosum, the principal structural avenue for interhemispheric
neuronal communication, controls the brain's lateralization. Developmental
malformations of the corpus callosum (CCD) can lead to learning and intellectual 
disabilities. Currently, there is no clear explanation for these symptoms. Here, 
we used resting-state functional MRI (rsfMRI) to evaluate the dynamic
resting-state functional connectivity (rsFC) in both the cingulate cortex (CG)
and the sensory areas (S1, S2, A1) in three marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) with
spontaneous CCD. We also performed rsfMRI in 10 CCD human subjects (six
hypoplasic and four agenesic). We observed no differences in the strength of rsFC
between homotopic CG and sensory areas in both species when comparing them to
healthy controls. However, in CCD marmosets, we found lower strength of
quasi-periodic patterns (QPP) correlation in the posterior interhemispheric
sensory areas. We also found a significant lag of interhemispheric communication 
in the medial CG, suggesting asynchrony between the two hemispheres.
Correspondingly, in human subjects, we found that the CG of acallosal subjects
had a higher QPP correlation than controls. In comparison, hypoplasic subjects
had a lower QPP correlation and a delay of 1.6 s in the sensory regions. These
results show that CCD affects the interhemispheric synchrony of both CG and
sensory areas and that, in both species, its impact on cortical communication
varies along the CC development gradient. Our study shines a light on how CCD
misconnects homotopic regions and opens a line of research to explain the causes 
of the symptoms exhibited by CCD patients and how to mitigate them.

Copyright © 2020 Szczupak, Yen, Liu, Tian, Lent, Tovar-Moll and Silva.

DOI: 10.3389/fncir.2020.612595 
PMCID: PMC7779638
PMID: 33408615  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.

