

2021. Eur J Neurosci. 2010 Mar;31(6):1043-62. doi: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2010.07118.x.
Epub 2010 Mar 3.

Spatial and temporal frequency tuning in striate cortex: functional uniformity
and specializations related to receptive field eccentricity.

Yu HH(1), Verma R, Yang Y, Tibballs HA, Lui LL, Reser DH, Rosa MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Clayton VIC 3800, Australia.
Hsin-Hao.Yu@med.monash.edu.au

In light of anatomical evidence suggesting differential connection patterns in
central vs. peripheral representations of cortical areas, we investigated the
extent to which the response properties of cells in the primary visual area (V1) 
of the marmoset change as a function of eccentricity. Responses to combinations
of the spatial and temporal frequencies of visual stimuli were quantified for
neurons with receptive fields ranging from 3 degrees to 70 degrees eccentricity. 
Optimal spatial frequencies and stimulus speeds reflected the expectation that
the responses of cells throughout V1 are essentially uniform, once scaled
according to the cortical magnification factor. In addition, temporal frequency
tuning was similar throughout V1. However, spatial frequency tuning curves
depended both on the cell's optimal spatial frequency and on the receptive field 
eccentricity: cells with peripheral receptive fields showed narrower bandwidths
than cells with central receptive fields that were sensitive to the same optimal 
spatial frequency. Although most V1 cells had separable spatial and temporal
frequency tuning, the proportion of neurons displaying significant spatiotemporal
interactions increased in the representation of far peripheral vision (> 50
degrees). In addition, of the fewer than 5% of V1 cells that showed robust
(spatial frequency independent) selectivity to stimulus speed, most were
concentrated in the representation of the far periphery. Spatiotemporal
interactions in the responses of many cells in the peripheral representation of
V1 reduced the ambiguity of responses to high-speed (> 30 degrees/s) signals.
These results support the notion of a relative specialization for motion
processing in the far peripheral representations of cortical areas, including V1.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2010.07118.x 
PMID: 20377618  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2022. Behav Neurosci. 2010 Apr;124(2):192-203. doi: 10.1037/a0018868.

Autonomic, behavioral, and neural analyses of mild conditioned negative affect in
marmosets.

Mikheenko Y(1), Man MS, Braesicke K, Johns ME, Hill G, Agustín-Pavón C, Roberts
AC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, University of Cambridge, United Kingdom.

Avoidance and alerting behaviors and accompanying physiological responses,
including changes in heart rate (HR), are core components of negative emotion.
Investigations into the neural mechanisms underlying the regulation and
integration of these responses require animal models that simultaneously measure 
both the physiological and behavioral components of emotion. A primate model is
of particular importance in view of the well developed prefrontal cortex of
primates, and this region's critical role in emotion regulation and the etiology 
of affective disorders. Therefore, we have developed a simple aversive
conditioning paradigm to assess, simultaneously, cardiovascular and behavioral
responses in the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). Validation of the paradigm was
achieved by (1) comparing conditioned responses to a predictive cue with
pseudoconditioned responses to a nonpredictive cue; (2) assessing the acquisition
of conditioning following lesions of the amygdala, a region essential for
associative learning in humans and rats; and (3) determining the contributions of
the sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous system to the conditioned autonomic
responses. Marmosets acquired conditioned HR and behavioral responses in the
conditioned, but not the pseudoconditioned or amygdala lesioned groups.
Conditioned HR accelerations were reduced by both parasympathetic and sympathetic
blockade. Thus, a model of associative learning of mild negative emotion in the
marmoset has been validated by psychological, neurological, and pharmacological
investigation. Future studies will determine the role of the prefrontal cortex in
the regulation of these negative emotional responses, to provide insights into
the neuropathology of affective disorders.

DOI: 10.1037/a0018868 
PMID: 20364879  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

