

2028. Behav Brain Funct. 2010 Mar 22;6:18. doi: 10.1186/1744-9081-6-18.

Effects of antenatal dexamethasone treatment on glucocorticoid receptor and
calcyon gene expression in the prefrontal cortex of neonatal and adult common
marmoset monkeys.

Diaz Heijtz R(1), Fuchs E, Feldon J, Pryce CR, Forssberg H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.
rocdia@ki.se

BACKGROUND: Synthetic glucocorticoids such as dexamethasone (DEX) are commonly
used to promote fetal lung maturation in at-risk preterm births, but there is
emerging evidence of subsequent neurobehavioral abnormalities in these children
e.g. problems with inattention/hyperactivity. However, molecular pathways
mediating effects of glucocorticoid overexposure on motor and cognitive
development are poorly understood.
METHODS: In this study with common marmoset monkeys, we investigated for neonatal
and adulthood effects of antenatal DEX treatment on the expression of the
corticosteroid receptors and also calcyon, a risk gene for
attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder, in the prefrontal cortex (PFC).
Pregnant marmosets were exposed to DEX (5 mg/kg body weight) or vehicle during
early (days 42-48) or late (days 90-96) stages of the 144-day pregnancy.
RESULTS: In neonates, relative to controls, glucocorticoid receptor (GR) mRNA
levels were significantly reduced after the late DEX treatment in the medial,
orbital and dorsal PFC and after the early DEX treatment in the dorsal PFC. The
early DEX exposure, specifically, resulted in significant reduction in calcyon
mRNA expression in the medial, orbital, dorsal and lateral PFC relative to
controls. Mineralocorticoid receptor (MR) mRNA levels were not significantly
affected by DEX treatment. In adults, PFC GR, calcyon, and MR mRNA levels were
not significantly affected by early or late prenatal DEX treatment.
CONCLUSION: These findings indicate that antenatal DEX treatment could lead to
short-term alterations in PFC expression of the GR and calcyon genes, with
possible neurodevelopmental functional consequences.

DOI: 10.1186/1744-9081-6-18 
PMCID: PMC2858712
PMID: 20307270  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2029. Eur J Pharmacol. 2010 Jun 10;635(1-3):109-16. doi: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2010.03.006. 
Epub 2010 Mar 19.

The timing of administration, dose dependence and efficacy of dopa decarboxylase 
inhibitors on the reversal of motor disability produced by L-DOPA in the
MPTP-treated common marmoset.

Tayarani-Binazir KA(1), Jackson MJ, Fisher R, Zoubiane G, Rose S, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Diseases Research Centre, School of Health and Biomedical
Sciences, King's College, London, UK.

Dopa decarboxylase inhibitors are routinely used to potentiate the effects of
L-DOPA in the treatment of Parkinson's disease. However, neither in clinical use 
nor in experimental models of Parkinson's disease have the timing and dose of
dopa decarboxylase inhibitors been thoroughly explored. We now report on the
choice of dopa decarboxylase inhibitors, dose and the time of dosing
relationships of carbidopa, benserazide and L-alpha-methyl dopa (L-AMD) in
potentiating the effects of L-DOPA in the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6
tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated common marmoset. Pre-treatment with benserazide
for up to 3h did not alter the motor response to L-DOPA compared to simultaneous 
administration with L-DOPA. There was some evidence of a relationship between
carbidopa and benserazide dose and increased locomotor activity and the reversal 
of motor disability. But in general, commonly used dose levels of dopa
decarboxylase inhibitors appeared to produce a maximal motor response to L-DOPA. 
In contrast, dyskinesia intensity and duration continued to increase with both
carbidopa and benserazide dose. The novel dopa decarboxylase inhibitor, L-AMD,
increased locomotor activity and improved motor disability to the same extent as 
carbidopa or benserazide but importantly this was accompanied by significantly
less dyskinesia. This study shows that currently, dopa decarboxylase inhibitors
may be routinely employed in the MPTP-treated primate at doses which are higher
than those necessary to produce a maximal potentiation of the anti-parkinsonian
effect of L-DOPA. This may lead to excessive expression of dyskinesia in this
model of Parkinson's disease and attention should be given to the dose regimens
currently employed.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2010.03.006 
PMID: 20303948  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

