

2033. Anat Rec (Hoboken). 2010 Apr;293(4):572-82. doi: 10.1002/ar.21121.

A preliminary analysis of the relationship between jaw-muscle architecture and
jaw-muscle electromyography during chewing across primates.

Vinyard CJ(1), Taylor AB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy and Neurobiology, Northeastern Ohio Universities College
of Medicine, Rootstown, OH 44272, USA. cvinyard@neoucom.edu

The architectural arrangement of the fibers within a muscle has a significant
impact on how a muscle functions. Recent work on primate jaw-muscle architecture 
demonstrates significant associations with dietary variation and feeding
behaviors. In this study, the relationship between masseter and temporalis muscle
architecture and jaw-muscle activity patterns is explored using Belanger's
treeshrews and 11 primate species, including two genera of strepsirrhines (Lemur 
and Otolemur) and five genera of anthropoids (Aotus, Callithrix, Cebus, Macaca,
and Papio). Jaw-muscle weights, fiber lengths, and physiologic cross-sectional
areas (PCSA) were quantified for this preliminary analysis or collected from the 
literature and compared to published electromyographic recordings from these
muscles. Results indicate that masseter architecture is unrelated to the
superficial masseter working-side/balancing-side (W/B) ratio across primate
species. Alternatively, relative temporalis architecture is correlated with
temporalis W/B ratios across primates. Specifically, relative temporalis PCSA is 
inversely related to the W/B ratio for the anterior temporalis, indicating that
as animals recruit a larger relative percentage of their balancing-side
temporalis, they possess the ability to generate relatively larger amounts of
force from these muscles. These findings support three broader conclusions.
First, masseter muscle architecture may have experienced divergent evolution
across different primate clades related to novel functional roles in different
groups. Second, the temporalis may be functionally constrained (relative to the
masseter) across primates in its functional role of creating vertical occlusal
forces during chewing. Finally, the contrasting results for the masseter and
temporalis suggest that the fiber architecture of these muscles has evolved as
distinct functional units in primates.

(c) 2010 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ar.21121 
PMCID: PMC3098528
PMID: 20235313  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2034. J Comp Neurol. 2010 May 15;518(10):1764-91. doi: 10.1002/cne.22301.

Organization of the marmoset cerebellum in three-dimensional space: lobulation,
aldolase C compartmentalization and axonal projection.

Fujita H(1), Oh-Nishi A, Obayashi S, Sugihara I.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Systems Neurophysiology, Graduate School of Medicine, Tokyo
Medical and Dental University, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-8519, Japan.

The cerebellar cortex is organized by transverse foliation and longitudinal
compartmentalization. Although the latter, which is recognized through the
molecular expression in subsets of Purkinje cells (PCs), is closely related to
topographic axonal projection and represents functional divisions, the details
have not been fully clarified in mammals other than rodents. Therefore, we
examined folial and compartmental organization of the marmoset cerebellum, which 
resembles the macaque cerebellum, and compared it with that of the rodent
cerebellum by aldolase C immunostaining, three-dimensional reconstruction of the 
PC layer, and labeling of olivocerebellar and corticonuclear projections.
Longitudinal stripes of different aldolase C expression intensities separated the
entire cerebellar cortex into multiple compartments. Lobule VIIAb-d was
equivalent to rodent lobule VIc in that it contained a transverse gap in the
cortical layers and served as the rostrocaudal boundary for compartments and
axonal branching. Olivocortical and corticonuclear projection patterns in major
compartments indicated that the compartmental organization in the marmoset
cerebellum was generally equivalent to that in the rodent cerebellum, although
two compartments were missing in the pars intermedia and several compartments
that have not been seen in rodents were recognized in the flocculus, nodulus, and
the most lateral hemisphere. Reconstruction showed that the paraflocculus and
flocculus were formed by a single longitudinal sheet, the axis of which was
parallel to the aldolase C compartments, PC dendrites, and olivocerebellar
climbing fiber distribution. The results indicate that molecular
compartmentalization in the marmoset cerebellum reflected both the common
fundamental organization of the mammalian cerebellum and species-dependent
differentiation.

(c) 2009 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.22301 
PMID: 20235174  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

