

2043. Can J Neurol Sci. 2010 Jan;37(1):86-95.

Neuropsychiatric behaviors in the MPTP marmoset model of Parkinson's disease.

Fox SH(1), Visanji N, Reyes G, Huot P, Gomez-Ramirez J, Johnston T, Brotchie JM.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Neurology, Toronto Western Research Institute, University of
Toronto, Toronto Western Hospital, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

OBJECTIVES: Neuropsychiatric symptoms are increasingly recognised as a
significant problem in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). These symptoms may
be due to 'sensitisation' following repeated levodopa treatment or a direct
effect of dopamine on the disease state. The levodopa-treated MPTP-lesioned
marmoset was used as a model of neuropsychiatric symptoms in PD patients. Here we
compare the time course of levodopa-induced motor fluctuations and
neuropsychiatric-like behaviors to determine the relationship between duration of
treatment and onset of symptoms.
METHODS: Marmosets were administered 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine
(2.0 mg/kg s.c.) for five days, resulting in stable parkinsonism. Levodopa (15
mg/kg and benserazide, 3.75 mg/kg) p.o. b.i.d, was administered for 30 days.
Animals were evaluated for parkinsonian disability, dyskinesia and on-time (motor
fluctuations) and neuropsychiatric-like behaviors on Day 0 (prior to levodopa)
and on Days 1, 7, 13, 27 and 30 of treatment using post hoc DVD analysis by a
trained rater, blind to the treatment day.
RESULTS: The neuropsychiatric-like behavior rating scale demonstrated high
interrater reliability between three trained raters of differing professional
backgrounds. As anticipated, animals exhibited a progressive increase in
levodopa-induced motor fluctuations, dyskinesia and wearing-off, that correlated 
with the duration of levodopa therapy. In contrast, levodopa-induced
neuropsychiatric-like behaviors were present on Day 1 of levodopa treatment and
their severity did not correlate with duration of treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: The data suggest that neuropsychiatric disorders in PD are more
likely an interaction between levodopa and the disease state than a consequence
of sensitisation to repeated dopaminergic therapy.

DOI: 10.1017/s0317167100009707 
PMID: 20169779  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2044. Antivir Ther. 2010;15(1):71-81. doi: 10.3851/IMP1490.

Efficacy of peroxisome proliferator activated receptor agonist in the treatment
of virus-associated haemophagocytic syndrome in a rabbit model.

Hsieh WC(1), Lan BS, Chen YL, Chang Y, Chuang HC, Su IJ.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Infectious Diseases, National Health Research Institutes, Tainan, 
Taiwan.

BACKGROUND: Virus-associated haemophagocytic syndrome (VAHS) is a fatal
complication of viral infections, such as Epstein-Barr virus and H5N1 influenza, 
that results from macrophage activation and pro inflammatory cytokine injuries.
The high comorbidity and mortality of current therapy urgently demands an ideal
agent based on VAHS pathogenesis. Peroxisome proliferator activated receptor
(PPAR) agonists, regulators of metabolic syndrome, can exhibit immunomodulatory
effects on macrophage activation and cytokine secretion.
METHODS: In this study, we adopted rosiglitazone, a PPAR-gamma agonist, for VAHS 
control in a Herpesvirus papio (HVP)-infected rabbit model. Various doses of
rosiglitazone were orally administered to rabbits on day 7 or day 20 after
intravenous challenge with 5 x 10(7) copies of HVP.
RESULTS: The rabbits that received 4 mg/day rosiglitazone had significantly
increased survival when treated at an early stage of infection (P<0.01), whereas 
a higher dose (8 mg/day) was required at the advanced stage of the disease
(P<0.05). All rosiglitazone-treated rabbits had significantly improved laboratory
parameters and plasma tumour necrosis factor-alpha levels. Importantly,
rosiglitazone could also inhibit viral replication in vitro and in vivo.
CONCLUSIONS: PPAR agonists could represent a potentially new agent for the
therapy of VAHS.

DOI: 10.3851/IMP1490 
PMID: 20167993  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

