

2044. Antivir Ther. 2010;15(1):71-81. doi: 10.3851/IMP1490.

Efficacy of peroxisome proliferator activated receptor agonist in the treatment
of virus-associated haemophagocytic syndrome in a rabbit model.

Hsieh WC(1), Lan BS, Chen YL, Chang Y, Chuang HC, Su IJ.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Infectious Diseases, National Health Research Institutes, Tainan, 
Taiwan.

BACKGROUND: Virus-associated haemophagocytic syndrome (VAHS) is a fatal
complication of viral infections, such as Epstein-Barr virus and H5N1 influenza, 
that results from macrophage activation and pro inflammatory cytokine injuries.
The high comorbidity and mortality of current therapy urgently demands an ideal
agent based on VAHS pathogenesis. Peroxisome proliferator activated receptor
(PPAR) agonists, regulators of metabolic syndrome, can exhibit immunomodulatory
effects on macrophage activation and cytokine secretion.
METHODS: In this study, we adopted rosiglitazone, a PPAR-gamma agonist, for VAHS 
control in a Herpesvirus papio (HVP)-infected rabbit model. Various doses of
rosiglitazone were orally administered to rabbits on day 7 or day 20 after
intravenous challenge with 5 x 10(7) copies of HVP.
RESULTS: The rabbits that received 4 mg/day rosiglitazone had significantly
increased survival when treated at an early stage of infection (P<0.01), whereas 
a higher dose (8 mg/day) was required at the advanced stage of the disease
(P<0.05). All rosiglitazone-treated rabbits had significantly improved laboratory
parameters and plasma tumour necrosis factor-alpha levels. Importantly,
rosiglitazone could also inhibit viral replication in vitro and in vivo.
CONCLUSIONS: PPAR agonists could represent a potentially new agent for the
therapy of VAHS.

DOI: 10.3851/IMP1490 
PMID: 20167993  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2045. Placenta. 2010 Apr;31(4):259-68. doi: 10.1016/j.placenta.2010.01.009. Epub 2010
Feb 18.

Distinct patterns of gene-specific methylation in mammalian placentas:
implications for placental evolution and function.

Ng HK(1), Novakovic B, Hiendleder S, Craig JM, Roberts CT, Saffery R.

Author information: 
(1)Developmental Epigenetics, Murdoch Children's Research Institute, Royal
Children's Hospital, Parkville, Victoria, Australia.

The placenta has arisen relatively recently and is among the most rapidly
evolving tissues in mammals. Several different placental barrier and structure
types appear to have independently evolved common functional features. Specific
patterns of gene expression that determine placental development in humans are
predicted to be accompanied by specific profiles of epigenetic modification.
However, the stratification of epigenetic modifications into those involved in
conserved aspects of placental function, versus those involved in divergent
placental features, has yet to begin. As a first step towards this goal, we have 
investigated the methylation status of a small number of gene-specific
methylation events recently identified in human placenta, in a panel of placental
tissue from baboon, marmoset, cow, cat, guinea pig and mouse. These represent
disparate placental barrier types and structures. In this study we hypothesized
that specific epigenetic markings may be associated with placental barrier type
or function, independent of phylogeny. However, in contrast to our predictions,
the majority of gene-specific methylation appears to track with phylogeny,
independent of placental barrier type or other structural features. This suggests
that despite the likelihood of epigenetic modification playing a role in the
functioning and evolution of different placental subtypes, there is no evidence
for an involvement of the gene-specific methylation profiles we have identified, 
in specifying these differences. Further studies, examining larger numbers of
epigenetic modifications across phylogeny, are required to define the role of
specific epigenetic modifications in the evolution of distinct placental
structures.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.placenta.2010.01.009 
PMID: 20167366  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

