

2059. J Pharmacol Toxicol Methods. 2010 May-Jun;61(3):264-70. doi:
10.1016/j.vascn.2010.01.005. Epub 2010 Jan 25.

Application of probabilistic analysis for precisely correcting the QT interval
for heart rate in telemetered common marmosets.

Honda M(1), Komatsu R, Holzgrefe HH, Yamada Y, Isobe T, Kimura K, Itoh T, Tamaoki
N, Tabo M.

Author information: 
(1)Safety Assessment Dept. Chugai Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. 1-135 Komakado,
Gotemba, Shizuoka 412-8513, Japan.

INTRODUCTION: QT intervals are strongly influenced by preceeding heart rate
history and are also characterized by rate-independent variability, leading to
difficulty in precise rate-correction of the raw QT interval. The present study
elucidates a novel analytical method that effectively addresses this problematic 
phenomenon in telemetered common marmosets.
METHODS: ECGs were collected from telemetered common marmosets (male and female) 
and analyzed by computerized algorithms. Descriptive statistics were calculated
from the mean of QT intervals for 5-ms increments of RR. The QT interval was
corrected for the RR interval by applying Bazett's, Fridericia's, and individual 
probabilistic QT rate-correction formulae.
RESULTS: The linear regression of log-transformed QT and RR intervals derived
from a probabilistic approach yielded a well-correlated QT-RR fit. Assessed as
the slope of the QTc-RR interval, application of individual probabilistic QT
rate-corrections resulted in the most effective dissociation of the effects of
rate from the raw QT interval, compared to generic rate-correction formulae.
Using individual corrections, the QTc was stable while the interquartile range
(IQR) of the QTc distribution was stable, spanning 5-10 ms for each subject over 
all physiological RR intervals. Heart rate variability distributions were
centered about unity during both photoperiods and sinus arrhythmia was far less
pronounced compared with measurements in dogs.
DISCUSSION: Probabilistic QT rate-correction eliminated the confounding effects
of heart rate and provided a stable QTc baseline. These results indicate that
application of this method of analysis in telemetered common marmosets results in
a high degree of sensitivity for the consistent detection of small (5-10 ms)
changes in the QTc interval.

2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vascn.2010.01.005 
PMID: 20097297  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2060. J Neurosci Res. 2010 May 15;88(7):1394-405. doi: 10.1002/jnr.22322.

Transplantation of galectin-1-expressing human neural stem cells into the injured
spinal cord of adult common marmosets.

Yamane J(1), Nakamura M, Iwanami A, Sakaguchi M, Katoh H, Yamada M, Momoshima S, 
Miyao S, Ishii K, Tamaoki N, Nomura T, Okano HJ, Kanemura Y, Toyama Y, Okano H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, Shinjuku, Tokyo,
Japan.

Delayed transplantation of neural stem/progenitor cells (NS/PCs) into the injured
spinal cord can promote functional recovery in adult rats and monkeys. To enhance
the functional recovery after NS/PC transplantation, we focused on galectin-1, a 
carbohydrate-binding protein with pleiotropic roles in cell growth,
differentiation, apoptosis, and neurite outgrowth. Here, to determine the
combined therapeutic effect of NS/PC transplantation and galectin-1 on spinal
cord injury (SCI), human NS/PCs were transfected by lentivirus with galectin-1
and green fluorescent protein (GFP), (Gal-NS/PCs) or GFP alone (GFP-NS/PCs),
expanded in vitro, and then transplanted into the spinal cord of adult common
marmosets, 9 days after contusive cervical SCI. The animals' motor function was
evaluated by their spontaneous motor activity, bar grip power, and performance on
a treadmill test. Histological analyses revealed that the grafted human NS/PCs
survived and differentiated into neurons, astrocytes, and oligodendrocytes. There
were significant differences in the myelinated area, corticospinal fibers, and
serotonergic fibers among the Gal-NS/PC, GFP-NS/PC, vehicle-control, and
sham-operated groups. The Gal-NS/PC-grafted animals showed a better performance
on all the behavioral tests compared with the other groups. These findings
suggest that Gal-NS/PCs have better therapeutic potential than NS/PCs for SCI in 
nonhuman primates and that human Gal-NS/PC transplantation might be a feasible
treatment for human SCI.

(c) 2010 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jnr.22322 
PMID: 20091712  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

