

2065. Horm Behav. 2010 Feb;57(2):255-62. doi: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2009.12.004. Epub 2009
Dec 16.

Manipulation of the oxytocin system alters social behavior and attraction in
pair-bonding primates, Callithrix penicillata.

Smith AS(1), Agmo A, Birnie AK, French JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology and Callitrichid Research Facility, University of
Nebraska at Omaha, Omaha, Nebraska, USA. asmith@neuro.fsu.edu

The establishment and maintenance of stable, long-term male-female relationships,
or pair-bonds, are marked by high levels of mutual attraction, selective
preference for the partner, and high rates of sociosexual behavior. Central
oxytocin (OT) affects social preference and partner-directed social behavior in
rodents, but the role of this neuropeptide has yet to be studied in heterosexual 
primate relationships. The present study evaluated whether the OT system plays a 
role in the dynamics of social behavior and partner preference during the first 3
weeks of cohabitation in male and female marmosets, Callithrix penicillata. OT
activity was stimulated by intranasal administration of OT, and inhibited by oral
administration of a non-peptide OT-receptor antagonist (L-368,899; Merck). Social
behavior throughout the pairing varied as a function of OT treatment. Compared to
controls, marmosets initiated huddling with their social partner more often after
OT treatments but reduced proximity and huddling after OT antagonist treatments. 
OT antagonist treatment also eliminated food sharing between partners. During the
24-h preference test, all marmosets interacted more with an opposite-sex stranger
than with the partner. By the third-week preference test, marmosets interacted
with the partner and stranger equally with the exception that intranasal-OT
treatments facilitated initial partner-seeking behavior over initial contact with
the stranger. Our findings demonstrate that pharmacological manipulations of OT
activity alter partner-directed social behavior during pair interactions,
suggesting that central OT may facilitate the process of pair-bond formation and 
social relationships in marmoset monkeys.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2009.12.004 
PMCID: PMC2824532
PMID: 20025881  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2066. Cloning Stem Cells. 2009 Dec;11(4):575-83. doi: 10.1089/clo.2009.0005.

Preimplantation development of somatic cell cloned embryos in the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus).

Sotomaru Y(1), Hirakawa R, Shimada A, Shiozawa S, Sugawara A, Oiwa R, Nobukiyo A,
Okano H, Tamaoki N, Nomura T, Hiyama E, Sasaki E.

Author information: 
(1)Natural Science Center for Basic Research and Development, Hiroshima
University, Hiroshima, Hiroshima, Japan. sotomaru@hiroshima-u.ac.jp

The somatic cell nuclear transfer technique has been applied to various mammals
to produce cloned animals; however, a standardized method is not applicable to
all species. We aimed here to develop optimum procedures for somatic cell cloning
in nonhuman primates, using common marmosets. First, we confirmed that
parthenogenetic activation of in vitro matured oocytes was successfully induced
by electrical stimulation (three cycles of 150 V/mm, 50 microsec x 2, 20 min
intervals), and this condition was applied to the egg activation procedure in the
subsequent experiments. Next, nuclear transfer to recipient enucleated oocytes
was performed 1 h before, immediately after, or 1 h after egg activation
treatment. The highest developmental rate was observed when nuclear transfer was 
performed 1 h before activation, but none of the cloned embryos developed beyond 
the eight-cell stage. To investigate the causes of the low developmental
potential of cloned embryos, a study was performed to determine whether the
presence of metaphase II (MII) chromosome in recipient ooplasm has an effect on
developmental potential. As a result, only tetraploid cloned embryos produced by 
transferring a donor cell into a recipient bearing the MII chromosome developed
into blastocysts (66.7%). In contrast, neither parthenogenetic embryos nor cloned
embryos (whether diploid or tetraploid) produced using enucleated oocytes
developed past the eight-cell stage. These results suggest that MII chromosome,
or cytoplasm proximal to the MII chromosome, plays a major role in the
development of cloned embryos in common marmosets.

DOI: 10.1089/clo.2009.0005 
PMID: 20025525  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

