

2066. Cloning Stem Cells. 2009 Dec;11(4):575-83. doi: 10.1089/clo.2009.0005.

Preimplantation development of somatic cell cloned embryos in the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus).

Sotomaru Y(1), Hirakawa R, Shimada A, Shiozawa S, Sugawara A, Oiwa R, Nobukiyo A,
Okano H, Tamaoki N, Nomura T, Hiyama E, Sasaki E.

Author information: 
(1)Natural Science Center for Basic Research and Development, Hiroshima
University, Hiroshima, Hiroshima, Japan. sotomaru@hiroshima-u.ac.jp

The somatic cell nuclear transfer technique has been applied to various mammals
to produce cloned animals; however, a standardized method is not applicable to
all species. We aimed here to develop optimum procedures for somatic cell cloning
in nonhuman primates, using common marmosets. First, we confirmed that
parthenogenetic activation of in vitro matured oocytes was successfully induced
by electrical stimulation (three cycles of 150 V/mm, 50 microsec x 2, 20 min
intervals), and this condition was applied to the egg activation procedure in the
subsequent experiments. Next, nuclear transfer to recipient enucleated oocytes
was performed 1 h before, immediately after, or 1 h after egg activation
treatment. The highest developmental rate was observed when nuclear transfer was 
performed 1 h before activation, but none of the cloned embryos developed beyond 
the eight-cell stage. To investigate the causes of the low developmental
potential of cloned embryos, a study was performed to determine whether the
presence of metaphase II (MII) chromosome in recipient ooplasm has an effect on
developmental potential. As a result, only tetraploid cloned embryos produced by 
transferring a donor cell into a recipient bearing the MII chromosome developed
into blastocysts (66.7%). In contrast, neither parthenogenetic embryos nor cloned
embryos (whether diploid or tetraploid) produced using enucleated oocytes
developed past the eight-cell stage. These results suggest that MII chromosome,
or cytoplasm proximal to the MII chromosome, plays a major role in the
development of cloned embryos in common marmosets.

DOI: 10.1089/clo.2009.0005 
PMID: 20025525  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2067. Birth Defects Res B Dev Reprod Toxicol. 2009 Dec;86(6):446-62. doi:
10.1002/bdrb.20216.

Developmental and reproductive toxicology studies in nonhuman primates.

Chellman GJ(1), Bussiere JL, Makori N, Martin PL, Ooshima Y, Weinbauer GF.

Author information: 
(1)Charles River Preclinical Services, Reno, Nevada 89511, USA.
gary.chellman@crl.com

Developmental and reproductive toxicology testing in nonhuman primates (NHPs) has
become more common due to the increasing number of biopharmaceuticals in drug
development, since NHPs are frequently the only species to express pharmacologic 
responses similar to humans. NHPs may also be used to help resolve issues
associated with small-molecule reproductive toxicology in traditional species
(rodents and rabbits). Adequate designs in NHP are presented for developmental
toxicity (embryo-fetal development, pre-postnatal development, enhanced
pre-postnatal development), reproductive toxicity (male and female), and juvenile
toxicity studies. Optional parameters that may be included in these studies are
discussed, as are new study designs that consolidate multiple aspects of the
reproductive assessment and thereby conserve the limited supply of sexually
mature NHPs available for testing. The details described will assist scientists
in pharmaceutical, regulatory, and contract research organizations who are
involved in conducting these unique studies to optimize their design based on
case-by-case considerations.
