

2078. Am J Phys Anthropol. 2010 Apr;141(4):583-93. doi: 10.1002/ajpa.21178.

Trabecular bone structure in the mandibular condyles of gouging and nongouging
platyrrhine primates.

Ryan TM(1), Colbert M, Ketcham RA, Vinyard CJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anthropology and Center for Quantitative Imaging, Pennsylvania
State University, University Park, Pennsylvania 16802, USA. tmr21@psu.edu

The relationship between mandibular form and biomechanical function is a topic of
significant interest to morphologists and paleontologists alike. Several previous
studies have examined the morphology of the mandible in gouging and nongouging
primates as a means of understanding the anatomical correlates of this feeding
behavior. The goal of the current study was to quantify the trabecular bone
structure of the mandibular condyle of gouging and nongouging primates to assess 
the functional morphology of the jaw in these animals. High-resolution computed
tomography scan data were collected from the mandibles of five adult common
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus), saddle-back tamarins (Saguinus fuscicollis), and 
squirrel monkeys (Saimiri sciureus), respectively, and various three-dimensional 
morphometric parameters were measured from the condylar trabecular bone. No
significant differences were found among the taxa for most trabecular bone
structural features. Importantly, no mechanically significant parameters, such as
bone volume fraction and degree of anisotropy, were found to vary significantly
between gouging and nongouging primates. The lack of significant differences in
mechanically relevant structural parameters among these three platyrrhine taxa
may suggest that gouging as a habitual dietary behavior does not involve
significantly higher loads on the mandibular condyle than other masticatory
behaviors. Alternatively, the similarities in trabecular architecture across
these three taxa may indicate that trabecular bone is relatively unimportant
mechanically in the condyle of these primates and therefore is functionally
uninformative.

(c) 2009 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.21178 
PMID: 19918988  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2079. Cereb Cortex. 2010 Jul;20(7):1668-75. doi: 10.1093/cercor/bhp236. Epub 2009 Nov
10.

Opposing effects of 5,7-DHT infusions into the orbitofrontal cortex and amygdala 
on flexible responding.

Man MS(1), Dalley JW, Roberts AC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 3DY, UK.

Central serotonin is implicated in a variety of emotional and behavioral control 
processes. Serotonin depletion can lead to exaggerated aversive processing and
deficient response inhibition, effects that have been linked to serotonin's
actions in the amygdala and orbitofrontal cortex (OFC), respectively. However, a 
direct comparison of serotonin manipulations within the OFC and amygdala in the
same experimental context has not been undertaken. This study compared the
effects of infusing the serotonin neurotoxin, 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine into the
OFC and amygdala of marmosets performing an appetitive test of response
inhibition. Marmosets had to learn to inhibit a prepotent response tendency to
choose a box containing high-incentive food and instead choose a box containing
low-incentive food, to obtain reward. OFC infusions caused long-lasting
reductions in serotonin tissue levels, as revealed at postmortem, and exaggerated
prepotent responses. In contrast, the significantly reduced prepotent responses
following amygdala infusions occurred at a time when serotonin tissue levels had 
undergone considerable recovery, but there remained residual reductions in
extracellular serotonin, in vivo. These opposing behavioral effects of serotonin 
manipulations in the same experimental context may be understood in terms of the 
top-down regulatory control of the amygdala by the OFC.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhp236 
PMID: 19903764  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

