

2085. Chem Biol Interact. 2010 Jan 5;183(1):67-78. doi: 10.1016/j.cbi.2009.10.007.

Comparative study of the oxidation of propranolol enantiomers in hepatic and
small intestinal microsomes from cynomolgus and marmoset monkeys.

Shimizudani T(1), Nagaoka K, Hanioka N, Yamano S, Narimatsu S.

Author information: 
(1)Graduate School of Medicine, Dentistry and Pharmaceutical Sciences, Okayama
University, 1-1-1 Tsushima-naka, Kita-ku, Okayama 700-8530, Japan.

Oxidative metabolism of propranolol (PL) enantiomers (R-PL and S-PL) to
4-hydroxypropranolol (4-OH-PL), 5-OH-PL and N-deisopropylpropranolol (NDP) was
examined in hepatic microsomes from cynomolgus and marmoset monkeys and in small 
intestinal microsomes from monkeys and humans. In hepatic microsomes, levels of
oxidation activities were similar between the two monkey species, and substrate
enantioselectivity (R-PL<S-PL) was observed in the formation of 5-OH-PL and/or
NDP. Kinetic experiments revealed that the formation of all metabolites was
biphasic in cynomolgus monkeys, whereas only the formation of NDP was biphasic in
marmosets. Inhibition experiments employing human CYP antibodies and chemical
inhibitors suggested that mainly CYP2D enzymes and partially CYP1A and 2C enzymes
are involved in the oxidation of PL in both monkey liver microsomes. In small
intestinal microsomes, activity levels were much higher in cynomolgus monkeys
than in marmosets and humans and reversed substrate enantioselectivity
(R-PL>S-PL) was seen in the formation of NDP in cynomolgus monkeys and humans and
in the formation of 5-OH-PL in marmosets. The formation of the three metabolites 
in cynomolgus monkeys and the formation of NDP in marmosets were biphasic, while 
the formation of 4-OH-PL in humans was monophasic. From the inhibition
experiments using CYP antibodies, CYP2C9 and 2C19 were thought to be involved as 
N-deisopropylases and CYP2D6 and 3A4 as 4-hydroxylases in human small intestine. 
Furthermore, CYP1A, 2C and 3A enzymes could be involved in cynomolgus monkeys and
CYP2C and 3A enzymes in marmosets. These results indicate that the oxidative
profile of PL in hepatic and small intestinal microsomes differ considerably
among cynomolgus monkeys, marmosets and humans.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cbi.2009.10.007 
PMID: 19853591  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2086. Exp Neurol. 2010 Jan;221(1):79-85. doi: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2009.10.004. Epub
2009 Oct 13.

Continuous rotigotine administration reduces dyskinesia resulting from pulsatile 
treatment with rotigotine or L-DOPA in MPTP-treated common marmosets.

Stockwell KA(1), Scheller DK, Smith LA, Rose S, Iravani MM, Jackson MJ, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Research Centre, School of Health and Biomedical
Sciences, King's College, London, UK.

We previously showed that continuous infusion of rotigotine resulted in less
dyskinesia than repeated pulsatile rotigotine administration or repeated oral
administration of L-DOPA in MPTP-treated marmosets. Now we investigate whether
continuous rotigotine delivery modifies established dyskinesia induced by prior
exposure to repeated pulsatile administration of L-DOPA or rotigotine in
MPTP-treated common marmosets. Repeated oral administration of L-DOPA or
subcutaneous bolus administration of rotigotine over 28 days improved motor
deficits but resulted in the onset of dyskinesia of moderate intensity. When
these animals were switched to a 28-day continuous infusion of rotigotine, the
reversal of motor disability was maintained. In those animals initially treated
with L-DOPA, there was a small reduction in dyskinesia intensity but a
significant reduction in the duration of dyskinesia. However, in animals
initially treated with repeated bolus administration of rotigotine, dyskinesia
intensity was significantly reduced. Initial treatment with a continuous infusion
of rotigotine for 28 days reversed motor disability and resulted in a low
incidence of dyskinesia. On switching to repeated oral administration of L-DOPA, 
the improvement in motor disability was maintained but the propensity of L-DOPA
to provoke dyskinesia was not affected. In addition, while the continuous
delivery of rotigotine prevented the expression of dyskinesia, the previously
demonstrated ability of dopamine agonists to prime for dyskinesia could not be
avoided. These data suggest that dyskinesia induced by pulsatile drug treatment
may be improved by switching to continuous rotigotine delivery. In addition,
while continuous delivery of rotigotine may prime for dyskinesia, it does not
lead to its expression.

DOI: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2009.10.004 
PMID: 19833125  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

