

209. J Neurophysiol. 2021 Feb 1;125(2):437-457. doi: 10.1152/jn.00312.2020. Epub 2020 
Dec 23.

Properties of visually guided saccadic behavior and bottom-up attention in
marmoset, macaque, and human.

Chen CY(1)(2), Matrov D(1)(3), Veale R(1), Onoe H(4), Yoshida M(5), Miura
K(6)(7), Isa T(1)(2)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Graduate School of Medicine, Kyoto University,
Kyoto, Japan.
(2)Institute for the Advanced Study of Human Biology, Kyoto University, Kyoto,
Japan.
(3)Division of Neuropsychopharmacology, Department of Psychology, University of
Tartu, Tartu, Estonia.
(4)Human Brain Research Center, Graduate School of Medicine, Kyoto University,
Kyoto, Japan.
(5)Center for Human Nature, Artificial Intelligence, and Neuroscience, Hokkaido
University, Sapporo, Japan.
(6)Department of Integrative Brain Science, Graduate School of Medicine, Kyoto
University, Kyoto, Japan.
(7)Department of Pathology of Mental Diseases, National Institute of Mental
Health, National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, Tokyo, Japan.

Saccades are stereotypic behaviors whose investigation improves our understanding
of how primate brains implement precise motor control. Furthermore, saccades
offer an important window into the cognitive and attentional state of the brain. 
Historically, saccade studies have largely relied on macaques. However, the
cortical network giving rise to the saccadic command is difficult to study in
macaques because relevant cortical areas lie in deep sulci and are difficult to
access. Recently, a New World monkey. the marmoset, has garnered attention as an 
alternative to macaques because of advantages including its smooth cortical
surface. However, adoption of the marmoset for oculomotor research has been
limited due to a lack of in-depth descriptions of marmoset saccade kinematics and
their ability to perform psychophysical tasks. Here, we directly compare
free-viewing and visually guided behavior of marmoset, macaque, and human engaged
in identical tasks under similar conditions. In the video free-viewing task, all 
species exhibited qualitatively similar saccade kinematics up to 25° in amplitude
although with different parameters. Furthermore, the conventional bottom-up
saliency model predicted gaze targets at similar rates for all species. We
further verified their visually guided behavior by training them with step and
gap saccade tasks. In the step paradigm, marmosets did not show shorter saccade
reaction time for upward saccades whereas macaques and humans did. In the gap
paradigm, all species showed similar gap effect and express saccades. Our results
suggest that the marmoset can serve as a model for oculomotor, attentional, and
cognitive research while we need to be aware of their difference from macaque or 
human.NEW & NOTEWORTHY We directly compared the results of a video free-viewing
task and visually guided saccade tasks (step and gap) among three different
species: marmoset, macaque, and human. We found that all species exhibit
qualitatively similar saccadic kinematics and saliency-driven saccadic behavior
albeit with different parameters. Our results suggest that the marmoset possesses
similar neural mechanisms to macaque and human for saccadic control, and it is an
appropriate model to study neural mechanisms for active vision and attention.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00312.2020 
PMID: 33356912  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


210. Emerg Infect Dis. 2021 Jan;27(1):47-56. doi: 10.3201/eid2701.191220.

Differential Yellow Fever Susceptibility in New World Nonhuman Primates,
Comparison with Humans, and Implications for Surveillance.

de Azevedo Fernandes NCC, Guerra JM, Díaz-Delgado J, Cunha MS, Saad LD, Iglezias 
SD, Ressio RA, Dos Santos Cirqueira C, Kanamura CT, Jesus IP, Maeda AY, Vasami
FGS, de Carvalho J, de Araújo LJT, de Souza RP, Nogueira JS, Spinola RMF,
Catão-Dias JL.

A major outbreak of yellow fever (YF) occurred in Brazil during 2016-2018.
Epizootics in New World nonhuman primates are sentinel events for YF virus
circulation. However, genus-specific susceptibilities and suitability for YF
surveillance remain poorly understood. We obtained and compared epidemiologic,
histopathologic, immunohistochemical, and molecular results from 93 human and
1,752 primate cases submitted during the recent YF outbreak in Brazil (2017),
with the support of the Brazilian National YF Surveillance Program. We detected
heterogeneous YF-associated profiles among the various genera of primates we
analyzed. Alouatta primates were the most reliable sentinel; Sapajus and
Callicebus primates had higher viral loads but lower proportional mortality
rates. Callithrix primates were the least sensitive, showing lower viral loads,
lower proportional mortality rates, and no demonstrable YF virus antigen or
extensive lesions in liver, despite detectable viral RNA. These differences in
susceptibility, viral load, and mortality rates should be considered in strategic
surveillance of epizootics and control measures for YF.

DOI: 10.3201/eid2701.191220 
PMCID: PMC7774563
PMID: 33350931  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

