

2093. Anat Rec (Hoboken). 2010 Jan;293(1):91-107. doi: 10.1002/ar.21017.

The maxillary sinus in three genera of new world monkeys: factors that constrain 
secondary pneumatization.

Smith TD(1), Rossie JB, Cooper GM, Carmody KA, Schmieg RM, Bonar CJ, Mooney MP,
Siegel MI.

Author information: 
(1)School of Physical Therapy, Slippery Rock University, Slippery Rock,
Pennsylvania 16057, USA. timothy.smith@sru.edu

The air filled cavities of paranasal sinuses are thought by some to appear
opportunistically in spatial "gaps" within the craniofacial complex. Anthropoid
primates provide excellent natural experiments for testing this model, since not 
all species possess a full complement of paranasal sinuses. In this study, two
genera of monkeys (Saguinus and Cebuella) which form maxillary sinuses (MS) as
adults were compared to squirrel monkeys (Saimiri spp.), in which a MS does not
form. Using microCT and histomorphometric methods, the spatial position of
paranasal spaces was assessed and size of the adjacent dental sacs was measured. 
In Saguinus, secondary pneumatization is underway perinatally, and the sinus
extends alongside deciduous premolars (dp). The MS overlaps all permanent molars 
in the adult. In Saimiri, the homologous space (maxillary recess) extends no
farther posterior than the first deciduous premolar at birth and extends no
farther than the last premolar in the adult. Differences in dental size and
position may account for this finding. For example, Saimiri has significantly
larger relative dp volumes, and enlarged orbits, which encroach on the internasal
space to a greater degree when compared to Saguinus. These factors limit space
for posterior expansion of the maxillary recess. These findings support the
hypothesis that secondary pneumatization is a novel, opportunistic growth
mechanism that removes "unneeded" bone. Moreover, paranasal spaces occur in
association with semiautonomous skeletal elements that border more than one
functional matrix, and the spatial dynamics of these units can act as a
constraint on pneumatic expansion of paranasal spaces.

(c) 2009 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ar.21017 
PMID: 19798701  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2094. PLoS Pathog. 2009 Oct;5(10):e1000606. doi: 10.1371/journal.ppat.1000606. Epub
2009 Oct 2.

Non-human primate model of Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus infection.

Chang H(1), Wachtman LM, Pearson CB, Lee JS, Lee HR, Lee SH, Vieira J, Mansfield 
KG, Jung JU.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Microbiology and Immunology, University of Southern
California, Keck School of Medicine, Los Angeles, California, United States of
America.

Since Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV or human herpesvirus 8) was
first identified in Kaposi's sarcoma (KS) lesions of HIV-infected individuals
with AIDS, the basic biological understanding of KSHV has progressed remarkably. 
However, the absence of a proper animal model for KSHV continues to impede direct
in vivo studies of viral replication, persistence, and pathogenesis. In response 
to this need for an animal model of KSHV infection, we have explored whether
common marmosets can be experimentally infected with human KSHV. Here, we report 
the successful zoonotic transmission of KSHV into common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus, Cj), a New World primate. Marmosets infected with recombinant KSHV
rapidly seroconverted and maintained a vigorous anti-KSHV antibody response. KSHV
DNA and latent nuclear antigen (LANA) were readily detected in the peripheral
blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) and various tissues of infected marmosets.
Remarkably, one orally infected marmoset developed a KS-like skin lesion with the
characteristic infiltration of leukocytes by spindle cells positive for KSHV DNA 
and proteins. These results demonstrate that human KSHV infects common marmosets,
establishes an efficient persistent infection, and occasionally leads to a
KS-like skin lesion. This is the first animal model to significantly elaborate
the important aspects of KSHV infection in humans and will aid in the future
design of vaccines against KSHV and anti-viral therapies targeting KSHV
coinfected tumor cells.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.ppat.1000606 
PMCID: PMC2745662
PMID: 19798430  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

