

21. Infect Immun. 2022 Mar 17;90(3):e0055021. doi: 10.1128/IAI.00550-21. Epub 2022
Jan 18.

The Innate Immune Response in the Marmoset during the Acute Pneumonic Disease
Caused by Burkholderia pseudomallei.

Ngugi S(1), Laws T(1), Simpson AJ(1)(2)(3), Nelson M(1).

Author information: 
(1)CBR division, DSTL Porton Down, Salisbury, Wiltshire, United Kingdom.
(2)Lao-Oxford-Mahosot Hospital-Wellcome Trust Research Unit (LOMWRU), Mahosot
Hospital, Vientiane, Lao People's Democratic Republic.
(3)Centre for Tropical Medicine and Global Health, Nuffield Department of
Medicine, University of Oxford, Oxford, United Kingdom.

Burkholderia pseudomallei is the causative agent of melioidosis, a severe human
infection that is difficult to treat with antibiotics and for which there is no
effective vaccine. Development of novel treatments rely upon appropriately
characterized animal models. The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) has been
established at Defense Science and Technology laboratories (DSTL) as a model of
melioidosis. Further analysis was performed on samples generated in these studies
to provide a description of the innate immune response. Many of the immunological
features described, (migration/activation of neutrophils and macrophages,
activation of T cells, elevation of key cytokines IFNγ, TNF-α, IL-6, and IL-1β)
have been observed in acute melioidosis human cases and correlated with
prognosis. Expression of the MHCII marker (HLA-DR) on neutrophils showed
potential as a diagnostic with 80% accuracy when comparing pre- and postchallenge
levels in paired blood samples. Discriminant analysis of cell surface, activation
markers on neutrophils combined with levels of key cytokines, differentiated
between disease states from single blood samples with 78% accuracy. These key
markers have utility as a prototype postexposure, presymptomatic diagnostic.
Ultimately, these data further validate the use of the marmoset as a suitable
model for determining efficacy of medical countermeasures against B.
pseudomallei.

DOI: 10.1128/IAI.00550-21 
PMCID: PMC8929355
PMID: 35041487 


22. J Comp Neurol. 2022 Jan 14. doi: 10.1002/cne.25292. [Epub ahead of print]

Retinal ganglion cells expressing CaM kinase II in human and nonhuman primates.

Baldicano AK(1), Nasir-Ahmad S(1)(2), Novelli M(1), Lee SCS(1)(2), Do MTH(3),
Martin PR(1)(2), Grünert U(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Save Sight Institute and Discipline of Ophthalmology, Faculty of Medicine and 
Health, The University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW, Australia.
(2)Australian Research Council Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain
Function, The University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW, 2000, Australia.
(3)F.M. Kirby Neurobiology Center and Department of Neurology, Boston Children's 
Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.

Immunoreactivity for calcium-/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) in 
the primate dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus (dLGN) has been attributed to
geniculocortical relay neurons and has also been suggested to arise from
terminals of retinal ganglion cells. Here, we combined immunostaining with
single-cell injections to investigate the expression of CaMKII in retinal
ganglion cells of three primate species: macaque (Macaca fascicularis, M.
nemestrina), human, and marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). We found that in all
species, about 2%-10% of the total ganglion cell population expressed CaMKII. In 
all species, CaMKII was expressed by multiple types of wide-field ganglion cell
including large sparse, giant sparse (melanopsin-expressing), broad thorny, and
narrow thorny cells. Three other ganglion cells types, namely, inner and outer
stratifying maze cells in macaque and tufted cells in marmoset were also found.
Double labeling experiments showed that CaMKII-expressing cells included inner
and outer stratifying melanopsin cells. Nearly all CaMKII-expressing ganglion
cell types identified here are known to project to the koniocellular layers of
the dLGN as well as to the superior colliculus. The best characterized
koniocellular projecting cell type-the small bistratified (blue ON/yellow OFF)
cell-was, however, not CaMKII-positive in any species. Our results indicate that 
the pattern of CaMKII expression in retinal ganglion cells is largely conserved
across different species of primate suggesting a common functional role. But the 
results also show that CaMKII is not a marker for all koniocellular projecting
retinal ganglion cells.

© 2022 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.25292 
PMID: 35029299 

