

2109. J Virol. 2009 Nov;83(22):11635-44. doi: 10.1128/JVI.01483-09. Epub 2009 Sep 2.

General and target-specific RNA binding properties of Epstein-Barr virus SM
posttranscriptional regulatory protein.

Han Z(1), Verma D, Hilscher C, Dittmer DP, Swaminathan S.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Infectious Diseases, Department of Medicine, and University of
Florida Shands Cancer Center, University of Florida, Gainesville, Florida, USA.

Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) SM protein is an essential nuclear shuttling protein
expressed by EBV early during the lytic phase of replication. SM acts to increase
EBV lytic gene expression by binding EBV mRNAs and enhancing accumulation of the 
majority of EBV lytic cycle mRNAs. SM increases target mRNA stability and nuclear
export, in addition to modulating RNA splicing. SM and its homologs in other
herpesvirus have been hypothesized to function in part by binding viral RNAs and 
recruiting cellular export factors. Although activation of gene expression by SM 
is gene specific, it is unknown whether SM binds to mRNA in a specific manner or 
whether its RNA binding is target independent. SM-mRNA complexes were isolated
from EBV-infected B-lymphocyte cell lines induced to permit lytic EBV
replication, and a quantitative measurement of mRNAs corresponding to all known
EBV open reading frames was performed by real-time quantitative reverse
transcription-PCR. The results showed that although SM has broad RNA binding
properties, there is a clear hierarchy of affinities among EBV mRNAs with respect
to SM complex formation. In vitro binding assays with two of the most highly
SM-associated transcripts suggested that SM binds preferentially to specific
sequences or structures present in noncoding regions of some EBV mRNAs.
Furthermore, the presence of these sequences conferred responsiveness to SM.
These data are consistent with a mechanism of action similar to that of hnRNPs,
which exert sequence-specific effects on gene expression despite having multiple 
degenerate consensus binding sites common to a large number of RNAs.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.01483-09 
PMCID: PMC2772688
PMID: 19726500  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2110. Am J Primatol. 2009 Dec;71(12):957-63. doi: 10.1002/ajp.20737.

Digestion in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a gummivore-frugivore.

Power ML(1), Myers EW.

Author information: 
(1)Nutrition Laboratory, Conservation and Ecology Center, Smithsonian National
Zoological Park, PO Box 37012 MRC 5503, Washington, DC 20013-7012, USA.
powerm@si.edu

Wild common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) feed on fruits, insects, and gums, all
of which provide different digestive challenges. Much of the ingested mass of
fruits consists of seeds. In general, seeds represent indigestible bulk to
marmosets and could inhibit feeding if they are not eliminated rapidly. In
contrast, gums are beta-linked polysaccharides that require microbial
fermentation. Their digestion would benefit from an extended residence time
within the gut. Earlier research found that mean retention time (MRT) for a
liquid digestive marker (cobalt EDTA) was significantly longer than MRT for a
particulate marker (chromium-mordanted fiber), suggesting that common marmosets
preferentially retain liquid digesta. We conducted two four-day-long digestion
trials on 13 individually housed adult common marmosets fed a single-item,
purified diet in order to examine the relations among MRT of cobalt EDTA and
chromium-mordanted fiber, food dry matter intake (DMI), and apparent
digestibility of dry matter (ADDM). We compared the MRT values with the data from
the previous study mentioned above and a study using polystyrene beads. There
were no significant correlations among MRT, ADDM, or DMI, although increases in
DMI between trials were associated with decreases in MRT. ADDM was consistent
within individuals between trials; but the mean values ranged from 75.0 to 83.4% 
among individuals. We found no difference in MRT between the liquid (17.5 + or - 
1.6 hr) and particulate (17.9 + or - 1.4 hr) markers. Although these values were 
not significantly different than found previously, the MRT for chromium-mordanted
fiber tended to be longer. This probably reflects the relatively small size of
the chromium-mordanted fiber particles used in this study. An inverse
relationship between particle size and MRT was evident; the mean MRT of
polysterene beads, the largest marker, was only 8.3 + or - 1.5 hr. Marmosets
appear to retain liquids and small particles within the gut longer than large
particles.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20737 
PMID: 19725117  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

