

2154. Am J Hum Biol. 2009 Nov-Dec;21(6):745-53. doi: 10.1002/ajhb.20923.

Fetal signaling through placental structure and endocrine function: illustrations
and implications from a nonhuman primate model.

Rutherford JN(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anthropology, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois 60208,
USA. julienne-rutherford@northwestern.edu

The placenta is a transmitter of fetal need and fetal quality, interfacing
directly with maternal physiology and ecology. Plasticity of placental structure 
and function across the developmental timeframe of gestation may serve as an
important tool by which a fetus calibrates its growth to shifting maternal
ecology and resource availability, and thereby signals its quality and
adaptability to a changing environment. Signals of this quality may be conveyed
by the size of the placental interface, an important marker of fetal access to
maternal resources, or by production of placental insulin-like growth factor-II, 
a driver of fetoplacental growth. Litter size variation in the common marmoset
monkey offers the opportunity to explore intrauterine resource allocation and
placental plasticity in an important nonhuman primate model. Triplet marmosets
are born at lower birth weights and have poorer postnatal outcomes and
survivorship than do twins; triplet placentas differ in placental efficiency,
microscopic morphology, and endocrine function. Through placental plasticity,
triplet fetuses are able to adjust functional access to maternal resources in a
way that allows pregnancy to proceed. However, the costs of such mechanisms may
relate to reduced fetal growth and altered postnatal outcomes, with the potential
to lead to adverse adult health consequences, suggesting an important link
between the placenta itself and the developmental origins of health and disease.

DOI: 10.1002/ajhb.20923 
PMCID: PMC3319756
PMID: 19384862  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2155. Behav Brain Res. 2009 Jun 8;200(1):214-9.

Two new test methods to quantify motor deficits in a marmoset model for
Parkinson's disease.

Verhave PS(1), Vanwersch RA, van Helden HP, Smit AB, Philippens IH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Diagnosis and Therapy, TNO Defence, Security and Safety,
Rijswijk, The Netherlands. nelleke.verhave@tno.nl

The validity of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) as a model for human
disease depends on the development of parameters with clinical relevance. We
tested the effect of treatment with MPTP in two newly developed non-invasive
motor behavioral paradigms in the context of Parkinson's disease. The "Tower" was
designed to quantify the marmoset's natural jumping behavior as a measure for
akinesia, the "Hourglass" to test the marmoset's natural righting reflex as
measure for rigidity, analogous to axial motor behavior in humans. MPTP treatment
affected marmoset behavior in both testing paradigms. The marmoset's righting
reflex in the Hourglass remained significantly impaired during the full 3-week
period after the MPTP intoxication. In the Tower, the marmosets were not able to 
jump the largest distances one week after MPTP and showed a persistent reduction 
in activity during the 3-week period after the MPTP intoxication. Because not all
aspects of motor behavior are similarly affected by MPTP, a complete behavioral
sketch of parkinsonian marmosets should preferably include a range of motor
behavior functions to create an overview of the full range of motor impairments. 
Both the Hourglass and Tower test provide important behavioral parameters in a
clinically relevant multiple testing approach in motor disorder models.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2009.01.022 
PMID: 19378465  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

