

2158. J Neurosci. 2009 Apr 15;29(15):5009-21. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0219-09.2009.

Adaptable mechanisms that regulate the contrast response of neurons in the
primate lateral geniculate nucleus.

Camp AJ(1), Tailby C, Solomon SG.

Author information: 
(1)Discipline of Physiology, School of Medical Sciences and Bosch Institute, The 
University of Sydney, New South Wales 2006, Australia.

The response of the classical receptive field of visual neurons can be suppressed
by stimuli that, when presented alone, cause no change in the discharge rate.
This suppression reveals the presence of an extraclassical receptive field
(ECRF). In recordings from the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) of a New World
primate, the marmoset, we characterize the mechanisms that contribute to the ECRF
by measuring their spatiotemporal tuning during prolonged exposure to a
high-contrast grating (contrast adaptation). The ECRF was strongest in
magnocellular cells, where contrast adaptation reduced suppression from the ECRF:
adaptation of the ECRF transferred across spatial frequency, temporal frequency, 
and orientation, but not across space. This implies that the ECRF of LGN cells
comprises multiple adaptable mechanisms, each broadly tuned but spatially
localized, and consistent with a retinal origin. Signals from the ECRF saturated 
at high contrasts, and so adaptation of one part of the ECRF brought into its
operating range signals from other parts of the visual field. Although the ECRF
is adaptable, its major impact during contrast adaptation to a spatially extended
pattern was to reduce visual response and hence reduce a neuron's susceptibility 
to contrast adaptation; in normal viewing, a major role of the ECRF might be to
protect visual sensitivity in scenes dominated by high contrast.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0219-09.2009 
PMCID: PMC6665333
PMID: 19369570  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2159. Am J Hum Biol. 2009 Nov-Dec;21(6):739-44. doi: 10.1002/ajhb.20920.

Variations in male parenting behavior and physiology in the common marmoset.

Ziegler TE(1), Prudom SL, Zahed SR.

Author information: 
(1)Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin, Madison, 
Wisconsin 53715, USA. ziegler@primate.wisc.edu

Infant survival and wellbeing is dependent upon good parenting skills. In some
species of primates, fathers are necessary to ensure both positive developmental 
and social outcomes for their offspring. Common marmosets and the related
cotton-top tamarin monkeys provide extensive paternal care of multiple offspring 
and are essential for infant survival. However, we have found significant
variation in a father's motivation to respond to infant stimuli. Additionally,
marmoset males who are experienced fathers are significantly more motivated to
respond to infants and infant stimuli than adult males who have yet to be
fathers. Expectant fathers appear to be preparing for their energetic role in
infant care by responding with increases in multiple reproductive hormones and
showing weight gain during their mate's pregnancy. Male marmosets have been shown
to be hormonally responsive to scent signals. Males show increased testosterone
shortly after smelling periovulatory scents and lower levels of testosterone
following presentation of their own infant's scent. These two inverse
testosterone responses combined indicate that paternal males have a flexible
system of responding to socially relevant odor cues. Thus males can be ready to
mate when their mate is fertile while continuing to be responsive to their
infants when these two events occur simultaneously. A male's hormonal and
physical responsiveness to parenting may be due to pair bonding between the male 
and his mate. Examining the variability between males in their behavioral,
physical, and hormonal responses to their mate's pregnancy, and infant stimuli
provides the means for determining the mechanisms of good parenting in fathers.

DOI: 10.1002/ajhb.20920 
PMCID: PMC5030771
PMID: 19367571  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

