

2168. Am J Primatol. 2009 Jun;71(6):503-9. doi: 10.1002/ajp.20682.

Social learning and mother's behavior in manipulative tasks in infant marmosets.

Dell'Mour V(1), Range F, Huber L.

Author information: 
(1)Department for Neurobiology and Cognition Research, University of Vienna,
Wien, Austria. vera_dellmour@yahoo.de

High levels of social tolerance are considered to promote social learning, as
they allow direct observation of a manipulating conspecific and facilitate
scrounging. Owing to tolerance toward infants, infancy is thought to be
especially suited for learning socially transmitted behaviors. Despite this, few 
studies have investigated social learning of infants, particularly in
manipulative tasks where observation might be most helpful. Here, we investigated
(1) the influence of social learning on task acquisition in infant marmosets, and
(2) whether the mother augments her behavior in a way that may enhance social
learning by her infants. We tested infant and juvenile marmosets in four
different complex foraging-related tasks, featuring large living insects (two
tasks) or artificially embedded prey (two tasks). Each individual observed the
mother solving two of the tasks and served as a control in the other two tasks.
Observers manipulated more and succeeded sooner than control animals, suggesting 
that observing the mother promoted learning either directly or by decreasing
neophobia. Moreover, the data suggest that learning in 11-15 week-old infants
might be promoted actively by the mother. She solved the tasks, consumed less
food, and consumed it later than when foraging with older offspring or alone.
Furthermore, the results indicate the possible importance of the third and fourth
month of infancy as the crucial ontogenetic period for social learning in
marmosets, corroborating recent observations of free-living common marmosets.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20682 
PMID: 19319974  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2169. J Exp Zool A Ecol Genet Physiol. 2009 Apr 1;311(4):289-302. doi: 10.1002/jez.531.

Detection of fruit by the Cerrado's marmoset (Callithrix penicillata): modeling
color signals for different background scenarios and ambient light intensities.

Perini ES(1), Pessoa VF, Pessoa DM.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Neuroscience and Behavior, Department of Physiological Sciences,
Institute of Biology, University of Brasilia, Brasilia-DF, Brazil.

Among placental mammals, only primates have trichromatic color vision, however
this is not a uniform condition. Under different genetic status, Old World
monkeys have routine trichromacy, while New World monkeys show a visual
polymorphism, characterized by obligatory male dichromacy. The ecological role of
this genetic difference still remains unclear, but some studies show that
dichromats and trichromats appear to have different abilities in detecting
colored targets against a background of leaves. The Cerrado's marmoset
(Callithrix penicillata) is known to forage in brightly illuminated (savanna-like
vegetation) and dimly illuminated (forests) environments, exploiting a high
amount of dark fruits. Hence, it seems to be a good model for studying the
differential advantages enjoyed by each color vision phenotype under natural
conditions. Our aim was to verify how the different phenotypes of Cerrado's
marmoset detect components of their diet, evaluating the existence of
differential phenotype advantages. Under two different light conditions, visual
signals of naturally consumed fruits were modeled against different backgrounds
scenarios. Even though dichromats and trichromats appear to be equally suited for
tasks involving fruit detection, phenotype differential advantages are observed
in this marmoset. In many conditions trichromats are predicted to perform better 
than dichromats, but under low ambient light dichromats manage to outperform
trichromats in some scenarios. Phenotypes that carry widely spaced and longer M/L
pigments enjoy the most advantage. These differential performances of
trichromatic phenotypes, together with overdominance selection, seem to explain
the maintenance of the tri-allelic system found in callitrichids.

(c) 2009 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jez.531 
PMID: 19296489  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

