

2188. Am J Physiol Endocrinol Metab. 2009 Mar;296(3):E520-31. doi:
10.1152/ajpendo.90895.2008. Epub 2009 Jan 13.

KiSS-1 in the mammalian ovary: distribution of kisspeptin in human and marmoset
and alterations in KiSS-1 mRNA levels in a rat model of ovulatory dysfunction.

Gaytán F(1), Gaytán M, Castellano JM, Romero M, Roa J, Aparicio B, Garrido N,
Sánchez-Criado JE, Millar RP, Pellicer A, Fraser HM, Tena-Sempere M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology, University of Córdoba, Avda. Menéndez Pidal s/n,
14004 Córdoba, Spain. fi1tesem@uco.es

Kisspeptins, the products of the KiSS-1 gene acting via G protein-coupled
receptor 54 (GPR54), have recently emerged as pivotal signals in the hypothalamic
network triggering the preovulatory surge of gonadotropins and, hence, ovulation.
Additional actions of kisspeptins at other levels of the
hypothalamic-pituitary-ovarian axis have been suggested but remain to date
scarcely studied. We report herein the pattern of expression of KiSS-1 and GPR54 
in the human and nonhuman primate ovary and evaluate changes in ovarian KiSS-1
expression in a rat model of ovulatory dysfunction. KiSS-1 and GPR54 mRNAs were
detected in human ovarian tissue and cultured granulosa-lutein cells. In good
agreement, kisspeptin immunoreactivity was observed in cyclic human and marmoset 
ovaries, with prominent signals in the theca layer of growing follicles, corpora 
lutea, interstitial gland, and ovarian surface epithelium. GPR54 immunoreactivity
was also found in human theca and luteal cells. Administration of indomethacin to
cyclic female rats disturbed ovulation and resulted in a dramatic drop in ovarian
KiSS-1, but not GPR54, cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), or progesterone receptor, mRNA
levels at the time of ovulation; an effect mimicked by the selective COX-2
inhibitor NS398 and rescued by coadministration of PGE(2). Likewise, the
stimulatory effect of human choriogonadotropin on ovarian KiSS-1 expression was
partially blunted by indomethacin. In contrast, KiSS-1 mRNA levels remained
unaltered in another model of ovulatory failure, i.e., the RU486-treated rat. In 
summary, we document for the first time the expression of KiSS-1/kisspeptin and
GPR54 in the human and nonhuman primate ovary. In addition, we provide evidence
for the ability of inhibitors of COX-2, known to disturb follicular rupture and
ovulation, to selectively alter the expression of KiSS-1 gene in rat ovary.
Altogether, our results are suggestive of a conserved role of local KiSS-1 in the
direct control of ovarian functions in mammals.

DOI: 10.1152/ajpendo.90895.2008 
PMID: 19141682  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2189. Am J Phys Anthropol. 2009 Jul;139(3):353-67. doi: 10.1002/ajpa.20991.

The functional correlates of jaw-muscle fiber architecture in tree-gouging and
nongouging callitrichid monkeys.

Taylor AB(1), Eng CM, Anapol FC, Vinyard CJ.

Author information: 
(1)Doctor of Physical Therapy Division, Department of Community and Family
Medicine, Duke University School of Medicine, Box 104002, Durham, NC 27708, USA. 
andrea.taylor@duke.edu

Common (Callithrix jacchus) and pygmy (Cebuella pygmaea) marmosets and cotton-top
tamarins (Saguinus oedipus) share broadly similar diets of fruits, insects, and
tree exudates. Marmosets, however, differ from tamarins in actively gouging trees
with their anterior dentition to elicit tree exudates flow. Tree gouging in
common marmosets involves the generation of relatively wide jaw gapes, but not
necessarily relatively large bite forces. We compared fiber architecture of the
masseter and temporalis muscles in C. jacchus (N = 18), C. pygmaea (N = 5), and
S. oedipus (N = 13). We tested the hypothesis that tree-gouging marmosets would
exhibit relatively longer fibers and other architectural variables that
facilitate muscle stretch. As an architectural trade-off between maximizing
muscle excursion/contraction velocity and muscle force, we also tested the
hypothesis that marmosets would exhibit relatively less pinnate fibers, smaller
physiologic cross-sectional areas (PCSA), and lower priority indices (I) for
force. As predicted, marmosets display relatively longer-fibered muscles, a
higher ratio of fiber length to muscle mass, and a relatively greater potential
excursion of the distal tendon attachments, all of which favor muscle stretch.
Marmosets further display relatively smaller PCSAs and other features that
reflect a reduced capacity for force generation. The longer fibers and attendant 
higher contraction velocities likely facilitate the production of relatively wide
jaw gapes and the capacity to generate more power from their jaw muscles during
gouging. The observed functional trade-off between muscle excursion/contraction
velocity and muscle force suggests that primate jaw-muscle architecture reflects 
evolutionary changes related to jaw movements as one of a number of functional
demands imposed on the masticatory apparatus.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.20991 
PMID: 19140215  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

