

22. J Comp Neurol. 2022 Jan 14. doi: 10.1002/cne.25292. [Epub ahead of print]

Retinal ganglion cells expressing CaM kinase II in human and nonhuman primates.

Baldicano AK(1), Nasir-Ahmad S(1)(2), Novelli M(1), Lee SCS(1)(2), Do MTH(3),
Martin PR(1)(2), Grünert U(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Save Sight Institute and Discipline of Ophthalmology, Faculty of Medicine and 
Health, The University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW, Australia.
(2)Australian Research Council Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain
Function, The University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW, 2000, Australia.
(3)F.M. Kirby Neurobiology Center and Department of Neurology, Boston Children's 
Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.

Immunoreactivity for calcium-/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) in 
the primate dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus (dLGN) has been attributed to
geniculocortical relay neurons and has also been suggested to arise from
terminals of retinal ganglion cells. Here, we combined immunostaining with
single-cell injections to investigate the expression of CaMKII in retinal
ganglion cells of three primate species: macaque (Macaca fascicularis, M.
nemestrina), human, and marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). We found that in all
species, about 2%-10% of the total ganglion cell population expressed CaMKII. In 
all species, CaMKII was expressed by multiple types of wide-field ganglion cell
including large sparse, giant sparse (melanopsin-expressing), broad thorny, and
narrow thorny cells. Three other ganglion cells types, namely, inner and outer
stratifying maze cells in macaque and tufted cells in marmoset were also found.
Double labeling experiments showed that CaMKII-expressing cells included inner
and outer stratifying melanopsin cells. Nearly all CaMKII-expressing ganglion
cell types identified here are known to project to the koniocellular layers of
the dLGN as well as to the superior colliculus. The best characterized
koniocellular projecting cell type-the small bistratified (blue ON/yellow OFF)
cell-was, however, not CaMKII-positive in any species. Our results indicate that 
the pattern of CaMKII expression in retinal ganglion cells is largely conserved
across different species of primate suggesting a common functional role. But the 
results also show that CaMKII is not a marker for all koniocellular projecting
retinal ganglion cells.

© 2022 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.25292 
PMID: 35029299 


23. Transl Vis Sci Technol. 2022 Jan 3;11(1):14. doi: 10.1167/tvst.11.1.14.

A Robust Microbead Occlusion Model of Glaucoma for the Common Marmoset.

Kumar S(1), Benavente-Perez A(1), Ablordeppey R(1), Lin C(1), Viswanathan S(1),
Akopian A(1), Bloomfield SA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological and Vision Sciences, State University of New York
College of Optometry, New York, NY, USA.

Purpose: To establish a robust experimental model of glaucoma in the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a New World primate, using an intracameral
microbead injection technique.
Methods: Elevated intraocular pressure (IOP) was induced by an injection of
polystyrene microbeads. Morphologic changes in the retina and optic nerve of
glaucomatous eyes were assessed and electroretinogram (ERG) recordings were
performed to evaluate functional changes.
Results: Microbead injections induced a sustained IOP elevation for at least 10
weeks in a reproducible manner. At the end of the 10-week experimental period,
there was significant loss of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) in all quadrants and 
eccentricities, although it was more prominent in the mid-peripheral and
peripheral regions. This was consistent with a thinning of the Retinal nerve
fiber layer (RNFL) seen in spectral domain optical coherence tomography scans.
Surviving RGCs showed marked changes in morphology, including somatic shrinkage
and dendritic atrophy. Retinas also showed significant gliosis. The amplitude of 
the ERG photopic negative response, with subsequent a- and b-wave changes, was
reduced in glaucomatous eyes. The optic nerve of glaucomatous eyes showed
expanded cupping, disorganization of the astrocytic matrix, axonal loss, and
gliosis.
Conclusions: We developed a robust and reproducible model of glaucoma in the
marmoset. The model exhibits both structural and functional alterations of retina
and optic nerve characteristic of glaucoma in humans and animal models.
Translational Relevance: The glaucoma model in the marmoset described here forms 
a robust method to study the disease etiology, progression, and potential
therapies in a nonhuman primate, allowing for more effective translation of
animal data to humans.

DOI: 10.1167/tvst.11.1.14 
PMCID: PMC8762714
PMID: 35019964  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

