

2207. Am J Primatol. 2009 Feb;71(2):165-70. doi: 10.1002/ajp.20636.

Contact calls of common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus): influence of age of
caller on antiphonal calling and other vocal responses.

Chen HC(1), Kaplan G, Rogers LJ.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Neuroscience and Animal Behaviour, University of New England,
Armidale, NSW 2351, Australia. hchen5@une.edu.au

Marmosets, as do many other primates, live in forest environments, are group
living and constantly at risk of predation. Retaining contact with one another is
therefore a matter of survival. We ask here whether their contact calls (phee and
twitter vocalizations) are in some way ordered acoustically by sex or age and
whether the calls of older marmosets elicit different responses than those of
younger marmosets. In our study, marmosets (2-14 years) were visually isolated
from conspecifics and the vocal responses to each isolated caller by other
marmosets in the colony were recorded. Vocal responses to phee calls largely
consisted of phee calls and, less commonly, twitter calls. No differences between
the responses to calls by males and females were apparent. However, we found a
strong positive and significant correlation between the caller's age and the
percentage of its phee calls receiving a phee response, and a significant
negative correlation between the caller's age and the percentage of its phee
calls receiving a twitter response. The older the marmoset, the more antiphonal
calling occurred. Two-syllable phee calls were emitted more often by older
marmosets (10-14 years) than by younger ones (2-6 years). Hence, we have found
age-dependent differences in phee-call production and a consistent change in the 
response received across the adult life-span. This age-dependent effect was
independent of kinship relations. This is the first evidence that marmosets
distinguish age by vocal parameters alone and make social decisions based on age.

(c) 2008 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20636 
PMID: 19026011  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2208. Radiology. 2008 Dec;249(3):855-64. doi: 10.1148/radiol.2493072141.

Diffusion-tensor neuronal fiber tractography and manganese-enhanced MR imaging of
primate visual pathway in the common marmoset: preliminary results.

Yamada M(1), Momoshima S, Masutani Y, Fujiyoshi K, Abe O, Nakamura M, Aoki S,
Tamaoki N, Okano H.

Author information: 
(1)Central Institute for Experimental Animals, Collaborating Institute for
Graduate School of Medicine, Keio University, Tokyo, Japan. kiyusamaya@mac.com

Comment in
    Radiology. 2008 Dec;249(3):725-7.

PURPOSE: To investigate whether diffusion-tensor tractography (DTT) of neuronal
fibers is useful for delineating the configuration of the neuronal fiber
trajectories in the primate visual pathway, including the well-developed optic
chiasm, in comparison with tract tracing at manganese-enhanced magnetic resonance
(MR) imaging.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The handling methods used for all the animals in this
study were approved by the institutional committee for animal experiments.
Diffusion-tensor MR imaging was performed in four healthy common marmosets, and
in two of these animals, manganese-enhanced MR imaging tract tracing was
performed by using a 7.0-T MR imaging unit. The visual pathways were
quantitatively investigated in terms of the manganese distribution observed on
the manganese-enhanced MR images. The images obtained with DTT and
manganese-enhanced MR imaging tract tracing were qualitatively compared, and the 
features of the visual pathway were verified through fusion of the reconstructed 
images obtained by using these two modalities.
RESULTS: DTT provided information regarding the neuroanatomic features of the
marmoset visual pathway and revealed the bilateral branching patterns of the
typical primate retinogeniculate pathways, although several incorrectly tracked
fibers were noted. The distribution of manganese on the manganese-enhanced MR
images revealed bilateral innervation of the retinal projections and depicted the
layered internal structure of the lateral geniculate nuclei bilaterally,
depending on the ocularity of each layer. These morphologic findings were
consistent with those of previous histopathologic studies.
CONCLUSION: The findings of this preliminary study raise the possibility that DTT
is useful for visualizing the neuronal fiber trajectories in primate visual
pathways.
SUPPLEMENTAL MATERIAL:
http://radiology.rsnajnls.org/cgi/content/full/249/3/855/DC1.

RSNA, 2008

DOI: 10.1148/radiol.2493072141 
PMID: 19011185  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

