

2211. J Comp Neurol. 2009 Jan 10;512(2):218-31. doi: 10.1002/cne.21893.

Expression of synaptic and phototransduction markers during photoreceptor
development in the marmoset monkey Callithrix jacchus.

Hendrickson A(1), Troilo D, Djajadi H, Possin D, Springer A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Structure, University of Washington, Seattle,
Washington 98195, USA.

Marmoset photoreceptor development was studied to determine the expression
sequence for synaptic, opsin, and phototransduction proteins. All markers appear 
first in cones within the incipient foveal center or in rods at the foveal edge. 
Recoverin appears in cones across 70% of the retina at fetal day (Fd) 88,
indicating that it is expressed shortly after photoreceptors are generated.
Synaptic markers synaptophysin, SV2, glutamate vesicular transporter 1, and CTBP2
label foveal cones at Fd 88 and cones at the retinal edge around birth. Cones and
rods have distinctly different patterns of synaptic protein and opsin expression.
Synaptic markers are expressed first in cones, with a considerable delay before
they appear in rods at the same eccentricity. Cones express synaptic markers 2-3 
weeks before they express opsin, but rods express opsin 2-4 weeks before rod
synaptic marker labeling is detected. Medium/long-wavelength-selective (M&L)
opsin appears in foveal cones and rod opsin in rods around the fovea at Fd 100.
Very few cones expressing short-wavelength-selective (S) opsin are found in the
Fd 105 fovea. Across peripheral retina, opsin appears first in rods, followed
about 1 week later by M&L cone opsin. S cone opsin appears last, and all opsins
reach the retinal edge by 1 week after birth. Cone transducin and rod arrestin
are expressed concurrently with opsin, but cone arrestin appears slightly later. 
Marmoset photoreceptor development differs from that in Macaca and humans. It
starts relatively late, at 56% gestation, compared with Macaca at 32% gestation. 
The marmoset opsin expression sequence is also different from that of either
Macaca or human.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.21893 
PMCID: PMC3089894
PMID: 19003975  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2212. Am J Phys Anthropol. 2009 Apr;138(4):403-20. doi: 10.1002/ajpa.20953.

Substrate determines asymmetrical gait dynamics in marmosets (Callithrix jacchus)
and squirrel monkeys (Saimiri boliviensis).

Young JW(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anthropology, University of Texas at Austin, Austin, TX 78712,
USA. jesse.young@mail.utexas.edu

Studies of skeletal pathology indicate that injury from falling accounts for most
long bone trauma in free-ranging primates, suggesting that primates should be
under strong selection to manifest morphological and behavioral mechanisms that
increase stability on arboreal substrates. Although previous studies have
identified several kinematic and kinetic features of primate symmetrical gaits
that serve to increase arboreal stability, very little work has focused on the
dynamics of primate asymmetrical gaits. Nevertheless, asymmetrical gaits typify
the rapid locomotion of most primates, particularly in smaller bodied taxa. This 
study investigated asymmetrical gait dynamics in growing marmosets and squirrel
monkeys moving on terrestrial and simulated arboreal supports (i.e., an elevated 
pole). Results showed that monkeys used several kinematic and kinetic adjustments
to increase stability on the pole, including reducing peak vertical forces,
limiting center of mass movements, increasing substrate contact durations, and
using shorter and more frequent strides (thus limiting disruptive whole-body
aerial phases). Marmosets generally showed greater adjustment to pole locomotion 
than did squirrel monkeys, perhaps as a result of their reduced grasping
abilities and retreat from the fine-branch niche. Ontogenetic increases in body
size had relatively little independent influence on asymmetrical gait dynamics
during pole locomotion, despite biomechanical theory suggesting that arboreal
instability is exacerbated as body size increases relative to substrate diameter.
Overall, this study shows that 1) symmetrical gaits are not the only stable way
to travel arboreally and 2) small-bodied primates utilize specific kinematic and 
kinetic adjustments to increase stability when using asymmetrical gaits on arbo
real substrates.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.20953 
PMID: 19003922  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

