

2212. Am J Phys Anthropol. 2009 Apr;138(4):403-20. doi: 10.1002/ajpa.20953.

Substrate determines asymmetrical gait dynamics in marmosets (Callithrix jacchus)
and squirrel monkeys (Saimiri boliviensis).

Young JW(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anthropology, University of Texas at Austin, Austin, TX 78712,
USA. jesse.young@mail.utexas.edu

Studies of skeletal pathology indicate that injury from falling accounts for most
long bone trauma in free-ranging primates, suggesting that primates should be
under strong selection to manifest morphological and behavioral mechanisms that
increase stability on arboreal substrates. Although previous studies have
identified several kinematic and kinetic features of primate symmetrical gaits
that serve to increase arboreal stability, very little work has focused on the
dynamics of primate asymmetrical gaits. Nevertheless, asymmetrical gaits typify
the rapid locomotion of most primates, particularly in smaller bodied taxa. This 
study investigated asymmetrical gait dynamics in growing marmosets and squirrel
monkeys moving on terrestrial and simulated arboreal supports (i.e., an elevated 
pole). Results showed that monkeys used several kinematic and kinetic adjustments
to increase stability on the pole, including reducing peak vertical forces,
limiting center of mass movements, increasing substrate contact durations, and
using shorter and more frequent strides (thus limiting disruptive whole-body
aerial phases). Marmosets generally showed greater adjustment to pole locomotion 
than did squirrel monkeys, perhaps as a result of their reduced grasping
abilities and retreat from the fine-branch niche. Ontogenetic increases in body
size had relatively little independent influence on asymmetrical gait dynamics
during pole locomotion, despite biomechanical theory suggesting that arboreal
instability is exacerbated as body size increases relative to substrate diameter.
Overall, this study shows that 1) symmetrical gaits are not the only stable way
to travel arboreally and 2) small-bodied primates utilize specific kinematic and 
kinetic adjustments to increase stability when using asymmetrical gaits on arbo
real substrates.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.20953 
PMID: 19003922  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2213. Restor Neurol Neurosci. 2008;26(4-5):249-66.

Axonal regeneration in the organotypically cultured monkey retina: biological
aspects, dependence on substrates and age-related proteomic profiling.

Rose K(1), Schröer U, Volk GF, Schlatt S, König S, Feigenspan A, Thanos S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Ophthalmology, University Eye Hospital Münster,
Münster, Germany.

Injury to the mature primate and subprimate optic nerve results in irreversible
impairment and loss of vision, because the retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) fail to 
regenerate their cut axons within the optic nerve interior. This study was
performed to examine whether aging monkey RGCs retain the ability to regenerate
their axons in organ culture and whether axonal regeneration is associated with
specific proteomic profile. Retinal stripes obtained from marmoset eyes (C.
jacchus) were cultured between the day of birth and adult stages on different
substrates like laminin-1, laminin-2, collagen, matrigel and poly-D-lysine. No
neurotrophic factors were added to the medium. Axonal growth was monitored with
microscopy and immunohistochemistry. Onset and rate of growth was examined with
time-lapse videography. Vigorous regeneration of axons occurred from identifiable
morphological types of RGCs throughout all stages of life, although the numbers
of axons decreased with age. Axonal growth occurred virtually only on laminin-1. 
Growth correlated with re-expression of the laminin-1 receptor alpha6-integrin
and sustained staining for GAP-43 as shown by immunohistochemistry and
immunoblotting. At proteomic level, there is a maturation-dependent change in the
protein immunostaining within the retina. When retinal slices of the same age
were compared, regeneration-specific protein staining included calmodulin, fatty 
acid binding protein, alpha-crystallin, IFN-gamma, cyclin-dependent kinase
inhibitor (p21), beta-hemoglobin, 60s-ribosomal protein, GAP-DH and
ADP-ribosylation factor (ARF). To our knowledge these data are the first from
subhuman animals to suggest that axonal regeneration of injured RGCs is
correlated to expression of identifiable proteins within the retina.


PMID: 18997304  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

