

2216. Swiss Med Wkly. 2008 Nov 29;138(47-48):692-707. doi: /aop/smw-aop12283.

Autoantibodies in inflammatory demyelinating diseases of the central nervous
system.

Lalive PH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Neurosciences, Division of Neurology, Geneva University
Hospital, Geneva, Switzerland. patrice.lalive@hcuge.ch

The determination of disease-specific autoantibodies (Abs) is a challenge in any 
autoimmune disease. The significance of Abs detected in inflammatory
demyelinating diseases (IDD) of the central nervous system (CNS), such as
multiple sclerosis (MS), is still unclear. Histopathological reports have
demonstrated that a humoral (Abs)-mediated pattern of demyelination is detected
in >50% of MS patients and is consistently associated with active demyelination. 
The observation that these patients specifically respond to plasmapheresis
reinforces the hypothesis of a specific humoral MS subtype. One of the most
intensively studied antigen targets in MS is a glycoprotein of the myelin sheath 
called the Myelin Oligodendrocyte Glycoprotein (MOG). Recent advances have shown 
that epitope specificity of MOG is crucial in terms of specificity of the Ab
response. Several other auto-Abs, including anti-myelin, oligodendrocyte and
neuronal Abs have been studied in MS. These auto-Abs may have pathogenic or
protective properties, but could also have no functional role. Recently, the
demonstration of a highly specific auto-Ab in an IDD of the CNS called
neuromyelitis optica (NMO), directed against the aquaporin-4 (AQP-4) located at
the blood brain barrier (BBB), has allowed a refinement of the diagnostic
criteria of NMO and classification of this disease as an autoimmune
channelopathy. These recent advances have reinforced the interest in tracking the
role of the humoral response in the different IDD of the CNS.

DOI: /aop/smw-aop12283 
PMID: 18951202  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2217. J Neurosci. 2008 Oct 22;28(43):10972-82. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.1521-08.2008.

Lesions of the medial striatum in monkeys produce perseverative impairments
during reversal learning similar to those produced by lesions of the
orbitofrontal cortex.

Clarke HF(1), Robbins TW, Roberts AC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology and Behavioural and Clinical
Neuroscience Institute, University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB23EB, United
Kingdom. hfc23@cam.ac.uk

The ability to switch responding between two visual stimuli based on their
changing relationship with reward is dependent on the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC).
OFC lesions in humans, monkeys, and rats disrupt performance on a common test of 
this ability, the visual serial discrimination reversal task. This finding is of 
particular significance to our understanding of psychiatric disorders such as
obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) and schizophrenia, in which behavioral
inflexibility is a prominent symptom. Although OFC dysfunction can occur in these
disorders, there is considerable evidence for more widespread dysfunction within 
frontostriatal and frontoamygdalar circuitry. Because the contribution of these
subcortical structures to behavioral flexibility is poorly understood, the
present study compared the effects of excitotoxic lesions of the medial striatum 
(MS), amygdala, and OFC in the marmoset monkey on performance of the serial
reversal task. All monkeys were able to learn a novel stimulus-reward association
but, compared with both control and amygdala-lesioned monkeys, those with MS or
OFC lesions showed a perseverative impairment in their ability to reverse this
association. However, whereas both MS and OFC groups showed insensitivity to
negative feedback, only OFC-lesioned monkeys showed insensitivity to positive
feedback. These findings suggest that, for different reasons, both the MS and OFC
support behavioral flexibility after changes in reward contingencies, and are
consistent with the hypothesis that striatal and OFC dysfunction can contribute
to pathological perseveration.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.1521-08.2008 
PMCID: PMC3981993
PMID: 18945905  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

