

2230. Genet Mol Res. 2008 Jul 29;7(3):663-78.

Evolution of the SEC1 gene in New World monkey lineages (Primates, Platyrrhini).

Borges BN(1), Paiva TS, Harada ML.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Biologia Molecular "Francisco Mauro Salzano", Instituto de
Ciências Biológicas, Universidade Federal do Pará, Cidade Universitária Prof.
José da Silveira Netto, Belém, PA, Brasil. bnborges@ufpa.br

The structure and evolution of the SEC1 gene were examined for the first time in 
New World primates of the genera Alouatta, Aotus, Ateles, Brachyteles,
Callicebus, Callithrix, Cebus, Chiropotes, Lagothrix, Leontopithecus, Pithecia,
Saguinus, and Saimiri. This gene has a high CG content (63.8%) and an estimated
heterogeneous size ranging from 795 (Callithrix) to 1041 bp (Pithecia), due to
numerous indel events. Similar to other fucosyltransferases, three conserved
regions are shared by these primates, except for the callitrichines, Aotus and
Pithecia, in which indel events resulted in premature stop codons that are
related to the production of a supposedly non-functional protein. Phylogenetic
analysis of the SEC1 gene, transition/transversion rates, and nucleotide sequence
alignment support the hypothesis that primate SEC1 evolved by divergent
evolution, and that the lack of activity in some lineages occurred independently 
at least twice in New World primates, once in the Aotus-Cebus-Callitrichinae
group and again in Pithecia. Likelihood-based inference of ancestral states for
the activity of SEC1 leads us to suppose that inactivation of SEC1 in the
Callitrichinae was a result of a more complex series of events than in Pithecia.

DOI: 10.4238/vol7-3gmr452 
PMID: 18752194  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2231. Rev Neurosci. 2008;19(2-3):187-201.

Common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) as a potential animal model for studying
psychological disorders associated with high and low responsiveness of the
hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis.

Galvão-Coelho NL(1), Silva HP, Leão Ade C, de Sousa MB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Graduate Program in Psychobiology, Universidade
Federal do Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, RN, Brazil.

Social non-human primates are potential animal models for studying changes in
social dynamics because they build strong emotional bonds inside the group, much 
as do humans. The common marmoset, a small neotropical primate, is a suitable
model because of its low maintenance cost and high reproductive output in
captivity associated with the presence of affiliative relationships among the
members of the social group and pair bond formation. The paradigm of involuntary 
separation is frequently used to study the physiological repercussions of social 
deprivation. In this review we point out the advantages of using social non-human
primates as animal models for studying psychological disorders. We focused on New
World primates, adding some original findings for common marmosets. Forty-eight
adult individuals (24 females) were monitored over 25 days in two situations:
baseline phase and separation phase. Variability in basal cortisol levels was
recorded for both males and females, and three types of cortisol profile were
drawn for the subjects in this population: high, medium and low. Basal cortisol
levels were a predictor of hormonal reactivity to social separation. The animals 
with low and high cortisol levels were hyper- and hyporeactive to separation,
respectively. Significant positive correlations between hormonal reactivity and
scent-marking behavior were found for low profile males and females. These
findings show that common marmosets display behavioral changes during challenging
situations and different cortisol profiles within a population. Thus, this
species appears to be a suitable animal model for studying mental disorders
associated with high and low responsiveness of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal
axis.


PMID: 18751524  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

