

2232. Rev Neurosci. 2008;19(2-3):101-11.

Neurokinin3 receptor modulation of the behavioral and neurochemical effects of
cocaine in rats and monkeys.

Silva MA(1), Jocham G, Barros M, Tomaz C, Müller CP.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Physiological Psychology I, University of Düsseldorf, Düsseldorf,
Germany. desouza@uni-duesseldorf.de

Neurokinin3 (NK3) receptors and their endogenous ligands (e.g. the neuropeptide
substance P and its C-terminal fragment) have been implicated in psychomotor
activity and reinforcement mechanisms. We review here recent findings on the
involvement of NK3 receptors in the behavioral and neurochemical effects of
cocaine. Although NK3 receptors can modulate dopamine (DA) activity in the brain,
recent results suggest that this modulation does not occur during spontaneous
behavioral activity. However, NK3 receptors play a role in the regulation of
cocaine-induced DA responses in the nucleus accumbens core and shell subregions. 
NK3 receptor agonism as well as antagonism potentiate cocaine's effects on
nucleus accumbens DA subregions specifically, and modulate the acute behavioral
effects of cocaine in rats and non-human primates (Callithrix penicillata).
However, conditioned place preference studies in rats have, so far, failed to
provide evidence for an involvement of NK3 receptors in the reinforcing effects
of cocaine.

DOI: 10.1515/revneuro.2008.19.2-3.101 
PMID: 18751518  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2233. Cereb Cortex. 2009 Apr;19(4):889-98. doi: 10.1093/cercor/bhn136. Epub 2008 Aug
22.

Differential contributions of dopamine and serotonin to orbitofrontal cortex
function in the marmoset.

Walker SC(1), Robbins TW, Roberts AC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, University of Cambridge, UK.

We have shown previously that the inhibitory control functions of the
orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) are disrupted by serotonin, but not dopamine
depletions. However, both dopamine and serotonin terminals and receptors are
present within the OFC and thus the aim of the present study was to determine the
differential contributions of these neurotransmitters to orbitofrontal function. 
OFC and dopamine are involved in the process by which neutral stimuli take on
reinforcing properties, by virtue of their prior association with reward, and
guide behavior. Thus, we compared the performance of marmosets with dopaminergic 
or serotoninergic OFC depletions on a test of conditioned reinforcement. To
further our understanding of serotonin in behavioral flexibility, the effect of
these depletions was also compared on the extinction of a visual discrimination. 
Monkeys with serotonin depletions of the OFC displayed stimulus-bound responding 
on both tests of conditioned reinforcement and discrimination extinction
suggesting that orbitofrontal serotonin plays a specific role in preventing
competing, task irrelevant, salient stimuli from biasing responding. In contrast,
monkeys with dopamine depletion were insensitive to conditioned reinforcers and
displayed persistent responding in the absence of reward in extinction, a pattern
of deficits that may reflect basic deficits in the associative processing of
reward.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhn136 
PMCID: PMC2651474
PMID: 18723695  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

