

2235. Mol Cell Biochem. 2008 Dec;319(1-2):181-7. doi: 10.1007/s11010-008-9891-5. Epub
2008 Aug 15.

Construction of a high-performance human fetal liver-derived lentiviral cDNA
library.

Kurita R(1), Oikawa T, Okada M, Yokoo T, Kurihara Y, Honda Y, Kageyama R, Suehiro
Y, Okazaki T, Iga M, Miyoshi H, Tani K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Genetics, Medical Institute of Bioregulation, Kyushu
University, Maidashi, Higashi-ku, Fukuoka, Japan.

The gene transduction method is a very powerful tool, not only in basic science
but also in clinical medicine. Regenerative medicine is one field that has close 
connection with both basic and clinical. Recently, it has been reported that
induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells can be produced from somatic cells by a
three or four gene transduction. We have also recently reported that lentiviral
gene transfer of the tal1/scl gene can efficiently differentiate non-human
primate common marmoset ES cells into hematopoietic cells without the support of 
stromal cells. In this study, we constructed a high-performance human fetal
liver-derived lentiviral expression library, which contains a high number of
individual clones, in order to develop a very helpful tool for understanding
early hematopoiesis and/or hepatocytosis for future regenerative medicine. Our
lentiviral cDNA library consisted of more than 8 x 10(7) individual clones, and
their average insert size was >2 kb. DNA sequence analysis for each individual
inserted cDNAs revealed that >60% contained the full-length protein-coding
regions for many genes including cytokine receptors, cytoplasmic proteins,
protein inhibitors, and nuclear factors. The transduction efficiency on 293T
cells was 100% and the average size of an integrated cDNA was ~1.1 kb. These
results suggest that our lentiviral human fetal liver cDNA expression library
could be a very helpful tool for accelerating the discovery of novel genes that
are involved in early hematopoiesis and hepatopoiesis and to make the use of iPS 
cells more efficient in the field of regenerative medicine.

DOI: 10.1007/s11010-008-9891-5 
PMID: 18709335  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2236. Mol Vis. 2008 Aug 11;14:1465-79.

Microarray analysis of choroid/RPE gene expression in marmoset eyes undergoing
changes in ocular growth and refraction.

Shelton L(1), Troilo D, Lerner MR, Gusev Y, Brackett DJ, Rada JS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology, University of Oklahoma Health Science Center, 940 
Stanton L. Young Blvd., Oklahoma City, OK 73104, USA.

PURPOSE: Visually guided ocular growth is facilitated by scleral extracellular
matrix remodeling at the posterior pole of the eye. Coincident with scleral
remodeling, significant changes in choroidal morphology, blood flow, and protein 
synthesis have been shown to occur in eyes undergoing ocular growth changes. The 
current study is designed to identify gene expression changes that may occur in
the choroid/retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) of marmoset eyes during their
compensation for hyperopic defocus as compared to eyes compensating for myopic
defocus.
METHODS: Total RNA was isolated from choroid/RPE from four common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus) undergoing binocular lens treatment using extended wear soft
contact lenses of equal magnitude but opposite sign (+/-5 diopter [D]). After
reverse transcription, cDNA was labeled and hybridized to a human oligonucleotide
microarray and gene transcript expression profiles were determined. Real-time
polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and western blot analysis were used to confirm
genes and proteins of interest, respectively.
RESULTS: Microarray analyses in choroid/RPE indicated 204 genes were
significantly changed in minus lens-treated as compared with plus lens-treated
eyes (p<0.05, Student's t-test). Differential choroid/RPE expression of protein
tyrosine phosphatase, receptor type, B (PTPRB), transforming growth factor
beta-induced (TGFBI), and basic fibroblast growth factor 2 (FGF-2) were confirmed
by real-time PCR. TGFBIp was confirmed at the protein level by western blot
analysis in marmoset and human cornea, choroid/RPE, and sclera.
CONCLUSIONS: The present study demonstrated that significant gene expression
changes occur in the marmoset choroid/RPE during visually guided ocular growth.
The identification of novel candidate genes in choroid/RPE of marmoset eyes
actively accelerating or decelerating their rates of ocular elongation may
elucidate the choroidal response during the regulation of postnatal ocular growth
and may lead to the identification of choroid/RPE signaling molecules that
participate in scleral remodeling.


PMCID: PMC2504533
PMID: 18698376  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

