

2240. Cereb Cortex. 2009 Apr;19(4):899-906. doi: 10.1093/cercor/bhn137. Epub 2008 Aug
9.

The role of the orbitofrontal cortex and medial striatum in the regulation of
prepotent responses to food rewards.

Man MS(1), Clarke HF, Roberts AC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Development and Neuroscience, University of
Cambridge, UK. msm36@cam.ac.uk

An impairment in learning to inhibit prepotent responses to positive stimuli is
associated with damage to the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) in rats, monkeys, and
humans performing discrimination reversal, extinction, and detour reaching tasks.
In contrast, a recent study showed that OFC-lesioned rhesus monkeys could learn
to select the smaller of 2 quantities of food reward in order to receive the
larger reward, at an equivalent rate to controls, despite the requirement to
inhibit a prepotent response. Given this result, the aim of the present study was
to further specify the contexts under which the OFC regulates responding and to
identify additional components of limbic circuitry that contribute to such
regulation. Marmosets with lesions of the OFC and medial striatum (MS), but not
the amygdala, made more prepotent responses to a clear Perspex box containing
high incentive food before learning to choose the box containing low incentive
food, to obtain reward. However, having learned the incongruent incentive
discrimination OFC- and MS-lesioned monkeys were impaired upon reversal of the
reward contingencies, repeatedly selecting the previously rewarded low incentive 
object. These findings identify the critical contribution of the OFC and MS in
the regulation of responding by affective cues.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhn137 
PMID: 18689858  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2241. Bing Du Xue Bao. 2008 May;24(3):234-8.

[Expression and analysis of the nucleoprotein of paramyxovirus Tianjin strain].

[Article in Chinese]

Wang Q(1), Li M, Shi LY, Yuan LJ, Wang WX.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, Tianjin Medical University, Tianjin 300070, China.
wangqing_diamond@yahoo.com.cn

Paramyxovirus Tianjin strain is a novel strain of virus causing common
cotton-eared marmoset fatal infection. To investigate the relationship between
the gene structure and function of nucleoprotein (NP) of Tianjin strain, NP gene 
of paramyxovirus Tianjin strain was cloned and three domains of NP were
expressed. The homologous and phylogenetic analysis of NP sequences among the
paramyxovirus Tianjin strain and eight strains of Sendai viruses from GenBank
were performed. The results indicated the recombinant proteins NP1, NP2 and NP3
showed the native antigenicity to the polyclonal antiserum of paramyxovirus
Tianjin strain, ranking as NP3>NP1>NP2 (precedence order). The homology of NP
nucleotide and the deduced amino acid sequences between paramyxovirus Tianjin
strain and Sendai virus BB1 strain were 94.5%, 96.2%, respectively, whereas the
identity were 85.1% - 88.7% and 92.4% - 94.7% among Tianjin strain and the 7
strains of Sendai viruses from GenBank respectively. There were 15 unique amino
acid substitutions in Tianjin strain NP protein and 11 common amino acid
substitutions same with BB1 strain. This research confirmed that paramyxovirus
Tianjin strain might be a new genotype of Sendai virus and can be helpful in the 
establishment of detection assay applying recombinant NP as antigen instead of
the whole virions.


PMID: 18683562  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

