

2244. Neurosci Lett. 2008 Oct 3;443(2):99-103. doi: 10.1016/j.neulet.2008.07.065. Epub 
2008 Jul 30.

Discrete retinal input to the parabrachial complex of a new-world primate, the
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Engelberth RC(1), de Pontes AL, do Nascimento RB, de Lima RR, de Lima RR, de
Toledo CA, de Oliveira Costa MS, Britto LR, de Souza Cavalcante J.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Chronobiology, Biosciences Center, Federal University of Rio
Grande do Norte, 59072-970 Natal-RN, Brazil.

Traditional retinal projections target three functionally complementary systems
in the brain of mammals: the primary visual system, the visuomotor integration
systems and the circadian timing system. In recent years, studies in several
animals have been conducted to investigate the retinal projections to these three
systems, despite some evidence of additional targets. The aim of this study was
to disclose a previously unknown connection between the retina and the
parabrachial complex of the common marmoset, by means of the intraocular
injection of cholera toxin subunit b. A few labeled retinal fibers/terminals that
are detected in the medial parabrachial portion of the marmoset brain show clear 
varicosities, suggesting terminal fields. Although the possible role of these
projections remains unknown, they may provide a modulation of the cholinergic
parabrachial neurons which project to the thalamic dorsal lateral geniculate
nucleus.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neulet.2008.07.065 
PMID: 18682276  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2245. J Toxicol Sci. 2008 Aug;33(3):315-25.

Prediction of drug-induced QT interval prolongation in telemetered common
marmosets.

Tabo M(1), Hara T, Sone S, Shishido N, Kuramoto S, Nakano K, Onodera H, Kimura K,
Kobayashi K.

Author information: 
(1)Safety Assessment Department, Research Division, Chugai Pharmaceutical Co.,
Ltd., Shizuoka. tabomty@chugai-pharm.co.jp

Drug-induced QT interval prolongation is a critical issue in development of new
chemical entities, so the pharmaceutical industry needs to evaluate risk as early
as possible. Common marmosets have been in the limelight in early-stage
development due to their small size, which requires only a small amount of test
drug. The purpose of this study was to determine the utility of telemetered
common marmosets for predicting drug-induced QT interval prolongation. Telemetry 
transmitters were implanted in common marmosets (male and female), and QT and RR 
intervals were measured. The QT interval was corrected for the RR interval by
applying Bazett's and Fridericia's correction formulas and individual rate
correction. Individual correction showed the least slope for the linear
regression of corrected QT (QTc) intervals against RR intervals, indicating that 
it dissociated changes in heart rate most effectively. With the individual
correction method, the QT-prolonging drugs (astemizole, dl-sotalol) showed QTc
interval prolongations and the non-QT-prolonging drugs (dl-propranolol,
nifedipine) did not show QTc interval prolongations. The plasma concentrations of
astemizole and dl-sotalol associated with QTc interval prolongations in common
marmosets were similar to those in humans, suggesting that the sensitivity of
common marmosets would be appropriate for evaluating risk of drug-induced QT
interval prolongation. In conclusion, telemetry studies in common marmosets are
useful for predicting clinical QT prolonging potential of drugs in early stage
development and require only a small amount of test drug.

DOI: 10.2131/jts.33.315 
PMID: 18670163  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

