

2245. J Toxicol Sci. 2008 Aug;33(3):315-25.

Prediction of drug-induced QT interval prolongation in telemetered common
marmosets.

Tabo M(1), Hara T, Sone S, Shishido N, Kuramoto S, Nakano K, Onodera H, Kimura K,
Kobayashi K.

Author information: 
(1)Safety Assessment Department, Research Division, Chugai Pharmaceutical Co.,
Ltd., Shizuoka. tabomty@chugai-pharm.co.jp

Drug-induced QT interval prolongation is a critical issue in development of new
chemical entities, so the pharmaceutical industry needs to evaluate risk as early
as possible. Common marmosets have been in the limelight in early-stage
development due to their small size, which requires only a small amount of test
drug. The purpose of this study was to determine the utility of telemetered
common marmosets for predicting drug-induced QT interval prolongation. Telemetry 
transmitters were implanted in common marmosets (male and female), and QT and RR 
intervals were measured. The QT interval was corrected for the RR interval by
applying Bazett's and Fridericia's correction formulas and individual rate
correction. Individual correction showed the least slope for the linear
regression of corrected QT (QTc) intervals against RR intervals, indicating that 
it dissociated changes in heart rate most effectively. With the individual
correction method, the QT-prolonging drugs (astemizole, dl-sotalol) showed QTc
interval prolongations and the non-QT-prolonging drugs (dl-propranolol,
nifedipine) did not show QTc interval prolongations. The plasma concentrations of
astemizole and dl-sotalol associated with QTc interval prolongations in common
marmosets were similar to those in humans, suggesting that the sensitivity of
common marmosets would be appropriate for evaluating risk of drug-induced QT
interval prolongation. In conclusion, telemetry studies in common marmosets are
useful for predicting clinical QT prolonging potential of drugs in early stage
development and require only a small amount of test drug.

DOI: 10.2131/jts.33.315 
PMID: 18670163  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2246. Prostate. 2008 Oct 1;68(14):1546-54. doi: 10.1002/pros.20814.

Nonhuman primates as models for studies of prostate specific antigen and
prostatic diseases.

Mubiru JN(1), Hubbard GB, Dick EJ Jr, Furman J, Troyer DA, Rogers J.

Author information: 
(1)Southwest National Primate Research Center, Southwest Foundation for
Biomedical Research, San Antonio, Texas 78245-0549, USA. jmubiru@sfbr.org

BACKGROUND: Because prostate specific antigen (PSA) is released at increased
levels into the blood early in the development of prostate cancer, benign
prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) and prostatitis, it is widely used as a marker for
these diseases. However, PSA has clinical limitations as a screen for prostatic
diseases due to its low sensitivity and specificity. There is a strong need to
better understand the biology of PSA and factors affecting its serum levels.
METHODS: We evaluated cynomolgus macaques, rhesus macaques, baboons, and
marmosets for their suitability as models for the study of PSA biology and
prostatic diseases.
RESULTS: Prostates of several nonhuman primates are anatomically similar to the
human counterpart. Anti-human PSA antibody detected PSA antigens in all the Old
World monkeys (cynomolgus macaques, rhesus macaques, and baboons) but not in
marmosets. Of the Old World monkeys, cynomolgus macaques have the highest serum
PSA levels; baboons have the lowest. Serum PSA levels from macaques includes a
number of outlier samples with unusually high values. We also report two cases of
abnormal pathologies in macaques accompanied by high serum PSA levels. One case
consisted of prostatic hyperplasia involving both glandular and basal cells in a 
cynomolgus macaque and another of glandular hyperplasia and atrophy in a rhesus
macaque. The finding that pathological changes in the prostate of macaques may
lead to increases in serum PSA is worthy of further exploration.
CONCLUSION: Cynomolgus macaques and rhesus macaques are promising animal models
for PSA biology studies.

DOI: 10.1002/pros.20814 
PMCID: PMC2559969
PMID: 18668524  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

