

2251. J Med Primatol. 2008 Jun;37(3):128-40.

The fate of paternal mitochondria in marmoset pre-implantation embryos.

Luetjens CM(1), Wesselmann R.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Reproductive Medicine of the University, Münster, Germany.
CraigMarc.Luetjens@ukmuenster.de

BACKGROUND: Sperm-derived mitochondria are integrated into the oocyte at
fertilization but seem to vanish during the early cleavage phase. The
developmental potential of pre-implantation embryos seems to be closely related
to their ability to induce degeneration of these mitochondria, but the mechanisms
underlying their loss of function are not yet understood. This study focuses on
the fate of paternal mitochondria in pre-implantation embryos.
METHODS: Stimulation, collection and in vitro culture of oocytes from Callithrix 
jacchus, allows the study of the destiny of paternal mitochondria by utilizing
immunostaining of pre-implantation embryos, fluorescence and laserscanning
microscopy. Live pre-implantation embryos were stained with a fluorescence
indicator reflecting mitochondrial membrane potential.
RESULTS: Evidence indicating the loss of mitochondrial function was not found nor
that apoptosis pathways were involved in the disappearance of paternally derived 
mitochondria.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings may have implications for mitochondrially inherited
diseases and could lead to new strategies for improving assisted reproduction.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0684.2007.00252.x 
PMID: 18642435  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2252. J Comp Neurol. 2008 Sep 20;510(3):251-68. doi: 10.1002/cne.21783.

Retinal ganglion cell inputs to the koniocellular pathway.

Szmajda BA(1), Grünert U, Martin PR.

Author information: 
(1)National Vision Research Institute of Australia, Carlton, VIC, Australia.

To understand the transmission of sensory signals in visual pathways we studied
the morphology and central projection of ganglion cell populations in marmoset
monkeys. Retinal ganglion cells were labeled by photofilling following injections
of retrograde tracer in the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN), or by intracellular
injection with neurobiotin. Ganglion cell morphology was analyzed using
hierarchical cluster analysis. In addition to midget and parasol ganglion cells, 
this method distinguished three main clusters of wide-field cells that correspond
to small bistratified, sparse, and broad thorny cells identified previously. The 
small bistratified and sparse cells occupy neighboring positions on the
hierarchical (linkage distance) tree. These cell types are presumed to carry
signals originating in short-wavelength sensitive (S or "blue") cones in the
retina. The linkage distance from these putative S-cone pathway ganglion cells to
other wide-field cells is similar to the linkage distance from midget cells to
parasol cells, suggesting that S-cone cells form a distinct functional subgroup
of ganglion cells. Small bistratified cells and large sparse cells were the most 
commonly labeled wide-field cells following LGN injections in koniocellular layer
K3. This is consistent with physiological evidence that the role of this layer
includes transmission of S-cone signals to the visual cortex. Other wide-field
cell types were also labeled following injections including K3, and other
koniocellular LGN layers; these cell types may correspond to "non-blue
koniocellular" receptive fields recorded in physiological studies.

Copyright 2008 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.21783 
PMID: 18626946  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

