

2269. Am J Trop Med Hyg. 2008 Jun;78(6):936-45.

Development of a model of hookworm infection exhibiting salient characteristics
of human infection.

Griffiths GD(1), Brown AP, Hooi DS, Pearce PC, Hornby RJ, Scott L, Pritchard DI.

Author information: 
(1)Biomedical Sciences Department, Defence Science and Technology Laboratory,
Porton Down, Salisbury, Wiltshire, United Kingdom.

Patent and pathologic infections of the human hookworm Necator americanus were
established in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). In a pilot study, a
laboratory strain of N. americanus was compared with a fresh field isolate.
Pathology was more severe in animals infected with a fresh isolate. In all
animals, infection was associated with increased total plasma IgE and production 
of IgG specific to adult worm excretory/secretory (ES) products. Histamine was
released by basophils in response to IgE, ES products, and a recombinant hookworm
allergen, calreticulin. The pilot study indicated the potential of this animal
model of hookworm infection and led us to investigate the consequences of
infecting a further cohort with the fresh field isolate. This second study
confirmed our initial findings, that it is possible to investigate the human
hookworm N. americanus in a model exhibiting many of the characteristics of the
immunology of hookworm infection in its definitive host.


PMID: 18541773  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2270. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2008 Nov;49(11):5168-74. doi: 10.1167/iovs.07-1340.
Epub 2008 Jun 6.

A low-cost and simple imaging technique of the anterior and posterior segments:
eye fundus, ciliary bodies, iridocorneal angle.

Guyomard JL(1), Rosolen SG, Paques M, Delyfer MN, Simonutti M, Tessier Y, Sahel
JA, Legargasson JF, Picaud S.

Author information: 
(1)INSERM, Institut de la Vision, Paris, France.

PURPOSE: The authors recently used topical endoscopy to image the mouse eye
fundus. Here, they widened the field of application for this ophthalmologic tool,
imaging both the posterior and the anterior eye segments in larger animals
commonly encountered in research laboratories and veterinary clinics.
METHODS: Pupils were dilated, and local anesthetic and gel were applied to the
animal cornea. The endoscopic probe was placed in contact with the cornea of
conscious rats, sedated cats and dogs, anesthetized sheep, and nonhuman primates.
RESULTS: High-resolution digital images of the eye fundus were obtained in all
investigated animals using the endoscopic probe along the eye axis. Arteriovenous
filling time was monitored with fluorescein angiography in pigmented rats. The
retinal periphery and ciliary bodies could be visualized with the probe placed at
an oblique angle. The probe was inclined further to observe the iridocorneal
angle such that the pectinate ligaments could be seen at high resolution in cats.
The authors used the probe on eyes with retinal detachment, luxation of a
cataractous lens, and pigment infiltration in the iridocorneal angle,
demonstrating its potential use in eye diseases.
CONCLUSIONS: This topical endoscopic technique provides a unique tool for single 
eye examinations. The authors obtained a circular view of the anterior
(iridocorneal angle) and the posterior (fundus) eye segments from all animal
species studied. This technique is inexpensive and easy to use. It can be easily 
moved to the eye of the patient who cannot move to stand in front of classic
apparatus, offering new opportunities in ophthalmology.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.07-1340 
PMID: 18539931  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

