

2274. Front Biosci. 2008 May 1;13:3742-59.

Spatial integration and its moderation by attention and acetylcholine.

Roberts MJ(1), Thiele A.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Neuroscience, University of Newcastle upon Tyne, Newcastle upon
Tyne, NE2 4HH, United Kingdom.

Attention is often regarded as a mechanism by which attended objects become
perceptually more salient, akin to increasing their contrast. We demonstrate by
means of human psychophysics that attention is better described as a mechanism
that reduces contextual integration, thereby ensuring that task irrelevant
information is prevented from influencing the processing of task relevant
information. To investigate possible neuronal bases of this phenomenon we studied
the effects of attention on spatial integration in V1 of the macaque monkey. In
line with our psychophysical results, attention directed to parafoveal locations 
reduced spatial integration by reducing the summation area of V1 neurons.
Additionally we measured length tuning in V1 in the presence and absence of
externally applied acetylcholine in V1 of the marmoset monkey. The effects of
acetylcholine application and attention were largely similar. Acetylcholine
reduced spatial integration by reducing the neuron's summation area. These data
demonstrate that attention can alter perceptual and neuronal spatial integration,
and that acetylcholine might contribute to task dependent receptive field
dynamics.

DOI: 10.2741/2963 
PMID: 18508469  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2275. Brain Res Bull. 2008 Jul 1;76(4):354-60. doi: 10.1016/j.brainresbull.2008.02.028.
Epub 2008 Mar 14.

Calcium-binding proteins in the circadian centers of the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus) and the rock cavy (Kerodon rupestris) brains.

Cavalcante JS(1), Britto LR, Toledo CA, Nascimento ES Jr, Lima RR, Pontes AL,
Costa MS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Biosciences Center, Federal University of Rio Grande
do Norte, 59072-970, Natal, RN, Brazil. jefsc@uol.com.br

The hypothalamic suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) and the thalamic intergeniculate
leaflet (IGL) are considered to be the main centers of the mammalian circadian
timing system. In primates, the IGL is included as part of the pregeniculate
nucleus (PGN), a cell group located mediodorsally to the dorsal lateral
geniculate nucleus. This work was carried out to comparatively evaluate the
immunohistochemical expression of the calcium-binding proteins calbindin D-28k
(CB), parvalbumin (PV), and calretinin (CR) into the circadian brain districts of
the common marmoset and the rock cavy. In both species, although no fibers,
terminals or perikarya showed PV-immunoreaction (IR) into the SCN, CB-IR
perikarya labeling was detected throughout the SCN rostrocaudal extent, seeming
to delimit its cytoarchitectonic borders. CR-IR perikarya and neuropil were
noticed into the ventral and dorsal portions of the SCN, lacking immunoreactivity
in the central core of the marmoset and filling the entire nucleus in the rock
cavy. The PGN of the marmoset presented a significant number of CB-, PV-, and
CR-IR perikarya throughout the nucleus. The IGL of the rocky cavy exhibited a
prominent CB- and CR-IR neuropil, showing similarity to the pattern found in
other rodents. By comparing with literature data from other mammals, the results 
of the present study suggest that CB, PV, and CR are differentially distributed
into the SCN and IGL among species. They may act either in concert or in a
complementary manner in the SCN and IGL, so as to participate in specific aspects
of the circadian regulation.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brainresbull.2008.02.028 
PMID: 18502310  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

