

2275. Brain Res Bull. 2008 Jul 1;76(4):354-60. doi: 10.1016/j.brainresbull.2008.02.028.
Epub 2008 Mar 14.

Calcium-binding proteins in the circadian centers of the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus) and the rock cavy (Kerodon rupestris) brains.

Cavalcante JS(1), Britto LR, Toledo CA, Nascimento ES Jr, Lima RR, Pontes AL,
Costa MS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Biosciences Center, Federal University of Rio Grande
do Norte, 59072-970, Natal, RN, Brazil. jefsc@uol.com.br

The hypothalamic suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) and the thalamic intergeniculate
leaflet (IGL) are considered to be the main centers of the mammalian circadian
timing system. In primates, the IGL is included as part of the pregeniculate
nucleus (PGN), a cell group located mediodorsally to the dorsal lateral
geniculate nucleus. This work was carried out to comparatively evaluate the
immunohistochemical expression of the calcium-binding proteins calbindin D-28k
(CB), parvalbumin (PV), and calretinin (CR) into the circadian brain districts of
the common marmoset and the rock cavy. In both species, although no fibers,
terminals or perikarya showed PV-immunoreaction (IR) into the SCN, CB-IR
perikarya labeling was detected throughout the SCN rostrocaudal extent, seeming
to delimit its cytoarchitectonic borders. CR-IR perikarya and neuropil were
noticed into the ventral and dorsal portions of the SCN, lacking immunoreactivity
in the central core of the marmoset and filling the entire nucleus in the rock
cavy. The PGN of the marmoset presented a significant number of CB-, PV-, and
CR-IR perikarya throughout the nucleus. The IGL of the rocky cavy exhibited a
prominent CB- and CR-IR neuropil, showing similarity to the pattern found in
other rodents. By comparing with literature data from other mammals, the results 
of the present study suggest that CB, PV, and CR are differentially distributed
into the SCN and IGL among species. They may act either in concert or in a
complementary manner in the SCN and IGL, so as to participate in specific aspects
of the circadian regulation.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brainresbull.2008.02.028 
PMID: 18502310  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2276. Endocrinology. 2008 Sep;149(9):4413-20. doi: 10.1210/en.2008-0325. Epub 2008 May 
22.

The role of vascular endothelial growth factor and estradiol in the regulation of
endometrial angiogenesis and cell proliferation in the marmoset.

Fraser HM(1), Wilson H, Silvestri A, Morris KD, Wiegand SJ.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council Human Reproductive Sciences Unit, University of
Edinburgh Centre for Reproductive Biology, The Queen's Medical Research
Institute, Edinburgh EH16 4TJ, United Kingdom. h.fraser@hrsu.mrc.ac.uk

The present studies explore the roles of vascular endothelial growth factor
(VEGF) and estradiol on angiogenesis and stromal and epithelial cell
proliferation in the marmoset endometrium during the proliferative phase of the
ovulatory cycle. At the start of the proliferative phase, marmosets were 1)
treated with vehicle, 2) treated with a VEGF inhibitor (VEGF Trap, aflibercept), 
3) ovariectomized, 4) ovariectomized and given replacement estradiol, or 5)
treated with VEGF Trap and given replacement estradiol. The uterus was examined
10 d later in the late proliferative phase. Changes in endothelial and epithelial
cell proliferation were quantified using a volumetric density method after
immunohistochemistry for bromodeoxyuridine to localize proliferating cells, CD31 
to visualize endothelial cells, and dual staining to distinguish endothelial cell
proliferation. Endothelial proliferation was elevated in late proliferative
controls but virtually absent after VEGF Trap. Ovariectomy had a similar
inhibitory effect, whereas angiogenesis was restored by estrogen replacement.
Estradiol replacement in VEGF Trap-treated marmosets resulted in only a small
increase in endothelial cell proliferation that remained significantly below
control values. VEGF Trap treatment and ovariectomy also markedly reduced stromal
cell proliferation but resulted in increased stromal cell density associated with
a reduction in overall endometrial volume. Estrogen replacement in both
ovariectomized and VEGF Trap-treated animals restored stromal proliferation rates
and cell density. These results show that endometrial angiogenesis and stromal
proliferation during the proliferative phase are driven by estradiol and that the
effect of estrogen on angiogenesis is mediated largely by VEGF.

DOI: 10.1210/en.2008-0325 
PMID: 18499749  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

