

2276. Endocrinology. 2008 Sep;149(9):4413-20. doi: 10.1210/en.2008-0325. Epub 2008 May 
22.

The role of vascular endothelial growth factor and estradiol in the regulation of
endometrial angiogenesis and cell proliferation in the marmoset.

Fraser HM(1), Wilson H, Silvestri A, Morris KD, Wiegand SJ.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council Human Reproductive Sciences Unit, University of
Edinburgh Centre for Reproductive Biology, The Queen's Medical Research
Institute, Edinburgh EH16 4TJ, United Kingdom. h.fraser@hrsu.mrc.ac.uk

The present studies explore the roles of vascular endothelial growth factor
(VEGF) and estradiol on angiogenesis and stromal and epithelial cell
proliferation in the marmoset endometrium during the proliferative phase of the
ovulatory cycle. At the start of the proliferative phase, marmosets were 1)
treated with vehicle, 2) treated with a VEGF inhibitor (VEGF Trap, aflibercept), 
3) ovariectomized, 4) ovariectomized and given replacement estradiol, or 5)
treated with VEGF Trap and given replacement estradiol. The uterus was examined
10 d later in the late proliferative phase. Changes in endothelial and epithelial
cell proliferation were quantified using a volumetric density method after
immunohistochemistry for bromodeoxyuridine to localize proliferating cells, CD31 
to visualize endothelial cells, and dual staining to distinguish endothelial cell
proliferation. Endothelial proliferation was elevated in late proliferative
controls but virtually absent after VEGF Trap. Ovariectomy had a similar
inhibitory effect, whereas angiogenesis was restored by estrogen replacement.
Estradiol replacement in VEGF Trap-treated marmosets resulted in only a small
increase in endothelial cell proliferation that remained significantly below
control values. VEGF Trap treatment and ovariectomy also markedly reduced stromal
cell proliferation but resulted in increased stromal cell density associated with
a reduction in overall endometrial volume. Estrogen replacement in both
ovariectomized and VEGF Trap-treated animals restored stromal proliferation rates
and cell density. These results show that endometrial angiogenesis and stromal
proliferation during the proliferative phase are driven by estradiol and that the
effect of estrogen on angiogenesis is mediated largely by VEGF.

DOI: 10.1210/en.2008-0325 
PMID: 18499749  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2277. J Reprod Immunol. 2008 Jul;78(2):125-33. doi: 10.1016/j.jri.2008.03.005. Epub
2008 May 19.

Expression of indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase in the rhesus monkey and common
marmoset.

Drenzek JG(1), Breburda EE, Burleigh DW, Bondarenko GI, Grendell RL, Golos TG.

Author information: 
(1)Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin-Madison,
1223 Capitol Court, Madison, WI 53715, USA.

Indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase (IDO) catalyzes the initial and rate-limiting step of
tryptophan degradation along the kynurenine pathway, and is hypothesized to limit
tryptophan availability at embryo implantation and prevent maternal T cell
activation at the maternal-fetal interface. To determine if nonhuman primates are
suitable models for investigating the role of IDO during pregnancy, we defined
the expression of IDO in the rhesus monkey and common marmoset with particular
attention to the female reproductive tract and placenta. IDO mRNA was detected by
RT-PCR in the rhesus monkey term placenta, lung, small intestine, spleen, lymph
node and nonpregnant uterus, and also in the common marmoset placenta.
Immunohistochemical analysis of rhesus monkey tissues localized IDO to glandular 
epithelium of nonpregnant endometrium and first trimester decidua, vessel
endothelium of nonpregnant myometrium, first trimester decidua and term decidua, 
and villous vessel endothelium and syncytiotrophoblast of term placenta. Western 
blot analysis confirmed IDO in rhesus monkey term placenta. In the common
marmoset, IDO was detected in glandular epithelium of the nonpregnant uterus and 
in the decidua at day 60 and day 128 of gestation. IDO activity was higher in
rhesus monkey and common marmoset decidua and placentas than in other tissues.
Confirmation of IDO expression in rhesus monkey and common marmoset uterine and
placental tissues supports the hypothesis that this enzyme regulates immune
activation at the maternal-fetal interface and demonstrates that nonhuman
primates may provide models with distinct similarities to human placentation to
study the role of IDO in maternal-fetal immune dialogue.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jri.2008.03.005 
PMID: 18490060  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

