

2277. J Reprod Immunol. 2008 Jul;78(2):125-33. doi: 10.1016/j.jri.2008.03.005. Epub
2008 May 19.

Expression of indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase in the rhesus monkey and common
marmoset.

Drenzek JG(1), Breburda EE, Burleigh DW, Bondarenko GI, Grendell RL, Golos TG.

Author information: 
(1)Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin-Madison,
1223 Capitol Court, Madison, WI 53715, USA.

Indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase (IDO) catalyzes the initial and rate-limiting step of
tryptophan degradation along the kynurenine pathway, and is hypothesized to limit
tryptophan availability at embryo implantation and prevent maternal T cell
activation at the maternal-fetal interface. To determine if nonhuman primates are
suitable models for investigating the role of IDO during pregnancy, we defined
the expression of IDO in the rhesus monkey and common marmoset with particular
attention to the female reproductive tract and placenta. IDO mRNA was detected by
RT-PCR in the rhesus monkey term placenta, lung, small intestine, spleen, lymph
node and nonpregnant uterus, and also in the common marmoset placenta.
Immunohistochemical analysis of rhesus monkey tissues localized IDO to glandular 
epithelium of nonpregnant endometrium and first trimester decidua, vessel
endothelium of nonpregnant myometrium, first trimester decidua and term decidua, 
and villous vessel endothelium and syncytiotrophoblast of term placenta. Western 
blot analysis confirmed IDO in rhesus monkey term placenta. In the common
marmoset, IDO was detected in glandular epithelium of the nonpregnant uterus and 
in the decidua at day 60 and day 128 of gestation. IDO activity was higher in
rhesus monkey and common marmoset decidua and placentas than in other tissues.
Confirmation of IDO expression in rhesus monkey and common marmoset uterine and
placental tissues supports the hypothesis that this enzyme regulates immune
activation at the maternal-fetal interface and demonstrates that nonhuman
primates may provide models with distinct similarities to human placentation to
study the role of IDO in maternal-fetal immune dialogue.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jri.2008.03.005 
PMID: 18490060  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2278. Brain. 2008 Jun;131(Pt 6):1574-87. doi: 10.1093/brain/awn085. Epub 2008 May 16.

Sprouting of dopamine terminals and altered dopamine release and uptake in
Parkinsonian dyskinaesia.

Lee J(1), Zhu WM, Stanic D, Finkelstein DI, Horne MH, Henderson J, Lawrence AJ,
O'Connor L, Tomas D, Drago J, Horne MK.

Author information: 
(1)Brain Injury and Repair, Howard Florey Institute, University of Melbourne,
Parkville,VIC, 3010, Australia.

Failed storage capacity, leading to pulsatile delivery of dopamine (DA) in the
striatum, is used to explain the emergence of 'wearing off' and dyskinaesia in
Parkinson's disease. In this study, we show that surviving DA neurons in 6-OHDA
lesioned rats sprout to re-innervate the striatum, and maintain terminal density 
until approximately 60% of neurons are lost. We demonstrate that DA terminal
density correlates with baseline striatal DA concentration ([DA]).
Electrochemical and synaptosome studies in 6-OHDA lesioned rats and primates
suggest that impaired striatal DA re-uptake and increased DA release from medial 
forebrain bundle fibres contribute to maintaining striatal DA levels. In lesioned
rats where terminal density fell by 60% or more, L-DOPA administration increased 
striatal DA levels markedly. The striatal [DA] produced by L-DOPA directly
correlated with the extent of dyskinaesia, suggesting that dyskinaesia was
related to high striatal [DA]. While sprouting and decreased dopamine uptake
transporter function would be expected to contribute to the marked increase in
L-DOPA induced [DA], the increased [DA] was most marked when DAergic fibres were 
>60% denervated, suggesting that other release sites, such as serotonergic fibres
might be contributing. In conclusion, the extent of dyskinaesia was directly
proportional to the extent of DA terminal denervation and levels of
extra-synaptic striatal DA. We propose that sprouting of DA terminals and
decreased dopamine uptake transporter function prevent the appearance of
Parkinsonian symptoms until about 60% loss of nigral neurons, but also contribute
to dysregulated striatal DA release that is responsible for the emergence of
dyskinaesia and 'wearing off'.

DOI: 10.1093/brain/awn085 
PMID: 18487277  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

