

2280. Theriogenology. 2008 Jul 1;70(1):115-20. doi:
10.1016/j.theriogenology.2008.03.011. Epub 2008 May 13.

Validation of non-fluorescent methods to reliably detect acrosomal and plasma
membrane integrity of common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) sperm.

Valle RR(1), Valle CM, Nichi M, Muniz JA, Nayudu PL, Guimarães MA.

Author information: 
(1)German Primate Centre (DPZ), Reproductive Biology Department, Kellnerweg 4,
Göttingen, Germany. rdrvalle@hotmail.com

Simple, rapid and stable sperm evaluation methods which have been optimized for
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) are critical for studies involving
collection and evaluation of sperm in the field. This is particularly important
for new species groups such as Callitrichidae where the sperm have been little
studied. Of this family, C. jacchus is the best known, and has been chosen as a
model species for other members of the genus Callithrix. The fundamental
evaluation parameters for sperm of any species are viability and acrosomal
status. Semen samples were collected by penile vibratory stimulation. To evaluate
sperm plasma membrane integrity, Eosin-Nigrosin was tested here for the common
marmoset sperm to be used under field conditions. Further, a non-fluorescent
stain for acrosome, the "Simple" stain, developed for domestic and wild cats, was
tested on common marmoset sperm. This was compared with a fluorescent staining,
Fluorescein isothiocyanate-Pisum sativum agglutinin (FITC-PSA), routinely used
and validated for common marmoset at the German Primate Centre to evaluate
acrosomal integrity. Results obtained with the "Simple" stain showed a marked
differentiation between sperm with intact and non-intact acrosome both with and
without ionophore treatment and closely correlated with results obtained with
FITC-PSA. Temperature had no effect on the results with the "Simple" stain and
the complete processing is simple enough to be carried out under field
conditions. These findings indicated that the "Simple" stain and Eosin-Nigrosin
provide rapid and accurate results for C. jacchus sperm and that those methods
can be reliably used as field tools for sperm evaluation for this species.

DOI: 10.1016/j.theriogenology.2008.03.011 
PMID: 18479742  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2281. Ai Zheng. 2008 May;27(5):455-9.

[Proliferation cycle changes of Epstein-Barr virus in nasopharyngeal carcinoma
cell line CNE after infection].

[Article in Chinese]

He YW(1), Zeng J, Ou XL, Zhang G, Du J.

Author information: 
(1)Center of Microbiology, Biochemistry and Pharmacology, School of
Pharmaceutical Sciences, Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, Guangdong, 510080,
People's Republic of China.

BACKGROUND & OBJECTIVE: The strategy of gene therapy on nasopharyngeal carcinoma 
(NPC) is determined by the characteristics of proliferation cycle of Epstein-Barr
virus (EBV) in different histological types of NPC cells. This study was to
investigate the characteristics of proliferation cycle of EBV in NPC cell line
CNE2.
METHODS: CNE2 cells were co-cultivated with marmoset lymphocyte line B95-8, which
was EBV-positive. Then B95-8 cells were removed by cytotoxic test of complement
activation. The initial infection state of EBV in CNE2 cells was analyzed by
reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and Southern
hybridization.
RESULTS: CNE2 cells were infected with EBV by cell-to-cell contacting. The
transcription of BZLF1, the symbol gene for EBV lytic phase, maintained 12 days
on average. The transcription of EBV-encoded small RNA (EBER), the symbol gene
for EBV infectious phase, maintained 22 days on average.
CONCLUSIONS: After invading CNE2 cells, most EBV initially might be at lytic
phase, then switch to the relatively stable latent phase, and finally be lost due
to cell culture and passage.


PMID: 18479592  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

