

2288. Nature. 2008 Jun 19;453(7198):1102-6. doi: 10.1038/nature06910. Epub 2008 May 4.

Neural substrates of vocalization feedback monitoring in primate auditory cortex.

Eliades SJ(1), Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.
seliades@jhu.edu

Vocal communication involves both speaking and hearing, often taking place
concurrently. Vocal production, including human speech and animal vocalization,
poses a number of unique challenges for the auditory system. It is important for 
the auditory system to monitor external sounds continuously from the acoustic
environment during speaking despite the potential for sensory masking by
self-generated sounds. It is also essential for the auditory system to monitor
feedback of one's own voice. This self-monitoring may play a part in
distinguishing between self-generated or externally generatedauditory inputs and 
in detecting errors in our vocal production. Previous work in humans and other
animals has demonstrated that the auditory cortex is largely suppressed during
speaking or vocalizing. Despite the importance of self-monitoring, the underlying
neural mechanisms in the mammalian brain, in particular the role of
vocalization-induced suppression, remain virtually unknown. Here we show that
neurons in the auditory cortex of marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) are
sensitive to auditory feedback during vocal production, and that changes in the
feedback alter the coding properties of these neurons. Furthermore, we found that
the previously described cortical suppression during vocalization actually
increased the sensitivity of these neurons to vocal feedback. This heightened
sensitivity to vocal feedback suggests that these neurons may have an important
role in auditory self-monitoring.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06910 
PMID: 18454135  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2289. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2008 Aug;49(8):3707-14. doi: 10.1167/iovs.08-1896.
Epub 2008 Apr 30.

Autoimmune optic neuritis in the common marmoset monkey: comparison of visual
evoked potentials with MRI and histopathology.

Diem R(1), Demmer I, Boretius S, Merkler D, Schmelting B, Williams SK, S채ttler
MB, B채hr M, Michaelis T, Frahm J, Br체ck W, Fuchs E.

Author information: 
(1)Neurologische Klinik der Universit채t des Saarlandes, Homburg, Saar, Germany.
ricarda.diem@uniklinikum-saarland.de

PURPOSE: To assess the use of visual evoked potentials (VEPs) for the in vivo
detection of impaired visual function in a marmoset model of multiple sclerosis. 
The sensitivity of the VEP recordings was determined by comparison with magnetic 
resonance imaging (MRI) and histopathology.
METHODS: Baseline VEPs were recorded in six healthy marmoset monkeys in response 
to light-flash stimulation. Experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) was
induced in four of the six monkeys. Clinical scores were assessed daily, and VEPs
were recorded every second week. In vivo MRI and subsequent histopathology of the
brains and optic nerves were performed at the end of the study.
RESULTS: After induction of EAE, all four marmosets exhibited clinical signs
between day 26 and 38 after immunization. VEPs were normal during the induction
phase of the disease, but deteriorated in amplitude with the occurrence of
clinical symptoms in all animals. MRI revealed bilateral optic neuritis and
signal alterations in the optic tracts and occipital subcortical white matter in 
two of the animals. In the remaining two animals, MRI detected signal alterations
in the occipital subcortical white matter. Histopathologic results were
concordant with the MRI findings.
CONCLUSIONS: VEPs are an easily accessible noninvasive tool for measuring visual 
function and diagnosing impairment of the visual pathway in a marmoset EAE model.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.08-1896 
PMID: 18450589  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

