

23. Transl Vis Sci Technol. 2022 Jan 3;11(1):14. doi: 10.1167/tvst.11.1.14.

A Robust Microbead Occlusion Model of Glaucoma for the Common Marmoset.

Kumar S(1), Benavente-Perez A(1), Ablordeppey R(1), Lin C(1), Viswanathan S(1),
Akopian A(1), Bloomfield SA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological and Vision Sciences, State University of New York
College of Optometry, New York, NY, USA.

Purpose: To establish a robust experimental model of glaucoma in the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a New World primate, using an intracameral
microbead injection technique.
Methods: Elevated intraocular pressure (IOP) was induced by an injection of
polystyrene microbeads. Morphologic changes in the retina and optic nerve of
glaucomatous eyes were assessed and electroretinogram (ERG) recordings were
performed to evaluate functional changes.
Results: Microbead injections induced a sustained IOP elevation for at least 10
weeks in a reproducible manner. At the end of the 10-week experimental period,
there was significant loss of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) in all quadrants and 
eccentricities, although it was more prominent in the mid-peripheral and
peripheral regions. This was consistent with a thinning of the Retinal nerve
fiber layer (RNFL) seen in spectral domain optical coherence tomography scans.
Surviving RGCs showed marked changes in morphology, including somatic shrinkage
and dendritic atrophy. Retinas also showed significant gliosis. The amplitude of 
the ERG photopic negative response, with subsequent a- and b-wave changes, was
reduced in glaucomatous eyes. The optic nerve of glaucomatous eyes showed
expanded cupping, disorganization of the astrocytic matrix, axonal loss, and
gliosis.
Conclusions: We developed a robust and reproducible model of glaucoma in the
marmoset. The model exhibits both structural and functional alterations of retina
and optic nerve characteristic of glaucoma in humans and animal models.
Translational Relevance: The glaucoma model in the marmoset described here forms 
a robust method to study the disease etiology, progression, and potential
therapies in a nonhuman primate, allowing for more effective translation of
animal data to humans.

DOI: 10.1167/tvst.11.1.14 
PMCID: PMC8762714
PMID: 35019964  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


24. J Am Assoc Lab Anim Sci. 2022 Mar 1;61(2):113-131. doi:
10.30802/AALAS-JAALAS-21-000061. Epub 2022 Jan 7.

Factors Affecting Hematologic and Serum Biochemical Parameters in Healthy Common 
Marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Kramer RM(1), Sheh A(1), Toolan CH(1), Muthupalani S(1), Carrasco SE(1), Artim
SC(1), Burns MA(1), Fox JG(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Comparative Medicine, Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
Cambridge, MA.

Physiologic changes during development, aging, and pregnancy may affect clinical 
parameters. Previously available reference values have been based on samples that
may include wild and captive marmosets, with little representation of geriatric
or pregnant animals. Establishing reference values under various conditions would
support better recognition of pathologic conditions in marmosets. One hundred and
forty-seven (70 males and 77 females) healthy marmosets from a research colony
were included in this study. Exclusion criteria were abnormal physical exam
findings at the time of blood sampling, chronic medications, or clinical or
pathologic evidence of disease. Reference intervals were calculated for serum
chemistry and hematology. Using metadata, samples were classified based on age,
sex, colony source and pregnancy status. Multiple tests indicated significant
differences with varying effect sizes, indicating that developing reference
intervals based on metadata can be useful. Across all the comparisons, medium or 
large effect sizes were observed most frequently in blood urea nitrogen (BUN),
calcium, total protein, alkaline phosphatase (ALP), weight and serum albumin. We 
report normative clinical pathologic data for captive common marmosets through
all life stages and reproductive status. Significant differences were observed in
most parameters when stratifying data based on age, sex, colony source, or
pregnancy, suggesting that developing reference intervals considering this
information is important for clinicians.

DOI: 10.30802/AALAS-JAALAS-21-000061 
PMID: 34996528 

