

2323. J Virol. 2008 Mar;82(6):3054-60. Epub 2007 Dec 19.

Virus-specific T-cell immunity correlates with control of GB virus B infection in
marmosets.

Woollard DJ(1), Haqshenas G, Dong X, Pratt BF, Kent SJ, Gowans EJ.

Author information: 
(1)The Burnet Institute, G.P.O. Box 2284, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
woollard@burnet.edu.au

GB virus B (GBV-B) is a hepatotropic virus that is closely related to hepatitis C
virus (HCV). GBV-B causes acute hepatitis in infected marmosets and tamarins and 
is therefore a useful small-animal model for the study of HCV. We investigated
virus-specific T-cell responses in marmosets infected with GBV-B. Gamma
interferon (IFN-gamma) enzyme-linked immunospot (ELISPOT) assay responses in the 
peripheral blood of two marmosets were assessed throughout the course of GBV-B
infection. These T-cell responses were directed against the GBV-B nonstructural
proteins 3 (NS3), 4A (NS4A), and 5B (NS5B), and their appearance was temporally
associated with clearance of viremia. These marmosets were then rechallenged with
GBV-B at least 3 months after clearance of the primary infection to determine if 
the animals were protected from reinfection. There was no detectable viremia
following reinfection, although a sharp increase in T-cell responses against
GBV-B proteins was observed. Epitope mapping of T-cell responses to GBV-B was
performed with liver and blood samples from both marmosets after rechallenge with
GBV-B. Three shared, immunodominant T-cell epitopes within NS3 were identified in
animals with multiple common major histocompatibility complex class I alleles.
IFN-gamma ELISPOT responses were also detected in the livers of two marmosets
that had resolved a primary GBV-B infection. These responses were high in
frequency and were directed against epitopes within GBV-B NS3, NS4A, and NS5B
proteins. These results indicate that virus-specific T-cell responses are
detectable in the liver and blood of GBV-B-infected marmosets and that the
clearance of GBV-B is associated with the appearance of these responses.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.01153-07 
PMCID: PMC2259009
PMID: 18094181  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2324. Vis Neurosci. 2007 Nov-Dec;24(6):857-74.

First order connections of the visual sector of the thalamic reticular nucleus in
marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus).

Fitzgibbon T(1), Szmajda BA, Martin PR.

Author information: 
(1)Discipline of Anatomy & Histology, School of Medical Sciences and Bosch
Institute, University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW 2006 Australia.
tomf@anatomy.usyd.edu.au

The thalamic reticular nucleus (TRN) supplies an important inhibitory input to
the dorsal thalamus. Previous studies in non-primate mammals have suggested that 
the visual sector of the TRN has a lateral division, which has connections with
first-order (primary) sensory thalamic and cortical areas, and a medial division,
which has connections with higher-order (association) thalamic and cortical
areas. However, the question whether the primate TRN is segregated in the same
manner is controversial. Here, we investigated the connections of the TRN in a
New World primate, the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). The topography of labeled
cells and terminals was analyzed following iontophoretic injections of tracers
into the primary visual cortex (V1) or the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus
(LGNd). The results show that rostroventral TRN, adjacent to the LGNd, is
primarily connected with primary visual areas, while the most caudal parts of the
TRN are associated with higher order visual thalamic areas. A small region of the
TRN near the caudal pole of the LGNd (foveal representation) contains connections
where first (lateral TRN) and higher order visual areas (medial TRN) overlap.
Reciprocal connections between LGNd and TRN are topographically organized, so
that a series of rostrocaudal injections within the LGNd labeled cells and
terminals in the TRN in a pattern shaped like rostrocaudal overlapping "fish
scales." We propose that the dorsal areas of the TRN, adjacent to the top of the 
LGNd, represent the lower visual field (connected with medial LGNd), and the more
ventral parts of the TRN contain a map representing the upper visual field
(connected with lateral LGNd).

DOI: 10.1017/S0952523807070770 
PMID: 18093372  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

