

2327. J Comp Neurol. 2008 Feb 10;506(5):860-76.

Anatomical and physiological definition of the motor cortex of the marmoset
monkey.

Burman KJ(1), Palmer SM, Gamberini M, Spitzer MW, Rosa MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Clayton, Victoria 3800,
Australia.

We used a combination of anatomical and physiological techniques to define the
primary motor cortex (M1) of the marmoset monkey and its relationship to adjacent
cortical fields. Area M1, defined as a region containing a representation of the 
entire body and showing the highest excitability to intracortical
microstimulation, is architecturally heterogeneous: it encompasses both the
caudal part of the densely myelinated "gigantopyramidal" cortex (field 4) and a
lateral region, corresponding to the face representation, which is less
myelinated and has smaller layer 5 pyramidal cells (field 4c). Rostral to M1 is a
field that is strongly reminiscent of field 4 in terms of cyto- and
myeloarchitecture but that in the marmoset is poorly responsive to
microstimulation. Anatomical tracing experiments revealed that this rostral field
is interconnected with visual areas of the posterior parietal cortex, whereas M1 
itself has no such connections. For these reasons, we considered this field to be
best described as part of the dorsal premotor cortex and adopted the designation 
6Dc. Histological criteria were used to define other fields adjacent to M1,
including medial and ventral subdivisions of the premotor cortex (fields 6M and
6V) and the rostral somatosensory field (area 3a), as well as a rostral
subdivision of the dorsal premotor area (field 6Dr). These results suggest a
basic plan underlying the histological organization of the caudal frontal cortex 
in different simian species, which has been elaborated during the evolution of
larger species of primate by creation of further morphological and functional
subdivisions.

(c) 2007 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.21580 
PMID: 18076083  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2328. Neurodegener Dis. 2008;5(1):38-52.

Preclinical assessment of therapeutic antibodies against human CD40 and human
interleukin-12/23p40 in a nonhuman primate model of multiple sclerosis.

't Hart BA(1), Hintzen RQ, Laman JD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Rijswijk, The
Netherlands. hart@bprc.nl

BACKGROUND: Proinflammatory cytokines, such as interleukin (IL)-12 and IL-23, and
costimulatory molecules on antigen-presenting cells (APC), such as CD40, are
critical to autoreactive T cell activation by APC, and hence, are considered
relevant targets of therapy for immune-mediated inflammatory diseases (IMID).
OBJECTIVE: The current review discusses the preclinical evaluation of two novel
immunotherapeutic monoclonal antibodies (mAbs), one directed against human
IL-12/23p40 and the other against CD40. As the antibodies only recognize their
target molecule in primates, the efficacy could not be tested in rodent models.
RESULTS: As a preclinical IMID model for the in vivo evaluation of both mAbs, we 
have used the experimental autoimmune/allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE) model in
common marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus). Both mAbs show beneficial
activities in the EAE model when administered early in disease development as
well as after the onset of brain inflammation. The treatment effects were
evaluated using a combination of quantitative magnetic resonance imaging and a
series of ex vivo and immunopathological evaluations.
CONCLUSION: The promising effects during ongoing disease in a relevant
preclinical IMID model illustrate the potential of these two antibodies as
treatment of IMID, in particular for multiple sclerosis on which disease EAE has 
been modeled.

Copyright (c) 2008 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000109937 
PMID: 18075274  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

