

2328. Neurodegener Dis. 2008;5(1):38-52.

Preclinical assessment of therapeutic antibodies against human CD40 and human
interleukin-12/23p40 in a nonhuman primate model of multiple sclerosis.

't Hart BA(1), Hintzen RQ, Laman JD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Rijswijk, The
Netherlands. hart@bprc.nl

BACKGROUND: Proinflammatory cytokines, such as interleukin (IL)-12 and IL-23, and
costimulatory molecules on antigen-presenting cells (APC), such as CD40, are
critical to autoreactive T cell activation by APC, and hence, are considered
relevant targets of therapy for immune-mediated inflammatory diseases (IMID).
OBJECTIVE: The current review discusses the preclinical evaluation of two novel
immunotherapeutic monoclonal antibodies (mAbs), one directed against human
IL-12/23p40 and the other against CD40. As the antibodies only recognize their
target molecule in primates, the efficacy could not be tested in rodent models.
RESULTS: As a preclinical IMID model for the in vivo evaluation of both mAbs, we 
have used the experimental autoimmune/allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE) model in
common marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus). Both mAbs show beneficial
activities in the EAE model when administered early in disease development as
well as after the onset of brain inflammation. The treatment effects were
evaluated using a combination of quantitative magnetic resonance imaging and a
series of ex vivo and immunopathological evaluations.
CONCLUSION: The promising effects during ongoing disease in a relevant
preclinical IMID model illustrate the potential of these two antibodies as
treatment of IMID, in particular for multiple sclerosis on which disease EAE has 
been modeled.

Copyright (c) 2008 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000109937 
PMID: 18075274  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2329. Anim Cogn. 2008 Apr;11(2):349-58. Epub 2007 Dec 8.

Social mobbing calls in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus): effects of
experience and associated cortisol levels.

Clara E(1), Tommasi L, Rogers LJ.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Neuroscience and Animal Behaviour, University of New England,
Armidale, NSW, 2351, Australia. elena.clara@unipd.it

We compared the mobbing response to model snakes of two groups of captive-born
common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) differing in genetic relatedness, age and
past experience. Mobbing vocalisations (tsik calls), other mobbing behaviour and 
attention to the stimulus were recorded for 2 min. intervals pre-exposure, during
exposure to various stimuli and post-exposure. Marmosets in one group were
vocally reactive to all stimuli, although more so to one particular stimulus
resembling rearing snakes and modified images of it, whereas the marmosets in a
younger and genetically unrelated group attended to the stimuli but made very few
mobbing calls. The parent stock of the first group had suffered stress in early
life and had developed a phobic response to a specific stimulus, which they had
transmitted to their offspring. A third group, matching the older group in age
range but genetically unrelated, was also found to be unresponsive to the
stimulus that elicited the strongest response in the first group. Cortisol levels
in samples of hair were assayed and a significant negative correlation was found 
between the number of tsik calls made during presentation of the stimuli and the 
cortisol level, showing that mobbing behaviour/behavioural reactivity is
associated with low levels of physiological stress.

DOI: 10.1007/s10071-007-0125-0 
PMID: 18066607  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

