

2329. Anim Cogn. 2008 Apr;11(2):349-58. Epub 2007 Dec 8.

Social mobbing calls in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus): effects of
experience and associated cortisol levels.

Clara E(1), Tommasi L, Rogers LJ.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Neuroscience and Animal Behaviour, University of New England,
Armidale, NSW, 2351, Australia. elena.clara@unipd.it

We compared the mobbing response to model snakes of two groups of captive-born
common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) differing in genetic relatedness, age and
past experience. Mobbing vocalisations (tsik calls), other mobbing behaviour and 
attention to the stimulus were recorded for 2 min. intervals pre-exposure, during
exposure to various stimuli and post-exposure. Marmosets in one group were
vocally reactive to all stimuli, although more so to one particular stimulus
resembling rearing snakes and modified images of it, whereas the marmosets in a
younger and genetically unrelated group attended to the stimuli but made very few
mobbing calls. The parent stock of the first group had suffered stress in early
life and had developed a phobic response to a specific stimulus, which they had
transmitted to their offspring. A third group, matching the older group in age
range but genetically unrelated, was also found to be unresponsive to the
stimulus that elicited the strongest response in the first group. Cortisol levels
in samples of hair were assayed and a significant negative correlation was found 
between the number of tsik calls made during presentation of the stimuli and the 
cortisol level, showing that mobbing behaviour/behavioural reactivity is
associated with low levels of physiological stress.

DOI: 10.1007/s10071-007-0125-0 
PMID: 18066607  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2330. Psychopharmacology (Berl). 2008 Mar;197(1):59-66. Epub 2007 Dec 5.

Efficacy of caffeine and modafinil in counteracting sleep deprivation in the
marmoset monkey.

van Vliet SA(1), Jongsma MJ, Vanwersch RA, Olivier B, Philippens IH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Diagnosis and Therapy, TNO Defence, Safety and Security, Lange
Kleiweg 137, 2288, GJ , Rijswijk, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: The effects of sleep deprivation are a burden in our 24-h
society. The use of wake-promoting compounds could improve the performance in
situations where sleep cannot be allowed. In this study, the efficacy of the
wake-promoting compounds, modafinil and caffeine, in counteracting the effects of
24-h sleep deprivation in the marmoset monkey were tested. As caffeine is
habitually used, the efficacy of both compounds after short- and long-term use
was investigated.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: After a normal active day, the animals were kept awake and
received wake-promoting compounds during the whole night. Three times during the 
sleep-deprived night, putative fatigue was assessed with an activity test and the
vigilance and ability to execute a task was assessed with a hand-eye coordination
(HEC) task.
RESULTS: Both compounds were able to counteract to some extent the decline in
performance. Modafinil was able to keep the activity at baseline performance, but
performance on the HEC task was not improved. Caffeine was able to keep
performance in the HEC task at a level just below daytime level but was not able 
to keep activity at daytime levels during the last part of the night. Caffeine
and modafinil administration for 2 weeks showed a comparable effect on activity
as acute use. The performance on the HEC task was similar after chronic caffeine 
and improved after chronic modafinil.
CONCLUSION: It is therefore concluded that modafinil and caffeine were both able 
to postpone or prevent the decline in vigilance and psychomotor performance and
increase in fatigue induced by sleep deprivation.

DOI: 10.1007/s00213-007-1005-7 
PMID: 18057918  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

