

2331. J Helminthol. 2008 Mar;82(1):81-4. Epub 2007 Dec 6.

Development of Fasciola hepatica in Lymnaea columella infected with miracidia
derived from cattle and marmoset infections.

Mendes EA(1), Lima WS, de Melo AL.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Parasitologia, Instituto de Ciências Biológicas, Universidade 
Federal de Minas Gerais, Av. Antonio Carlos, 6627, CP 486, CEP 30123 970, Minas
Gerais, Belo Horizonte, Brazil.

The development of Fasciola hepatica from two species of definitive hosts, i.e.
cattle (Bos taurus) and a marmoset (Callithrix penicillata) in the snail Lymnaea 
columella was determined based on the production of rediae and cercariae and
snail survival rate. More rediae and cercariae at 60-74 days post-infection were 
produced by snails infected by cattle-derived miracidia (cattle group) than by
those infected by marmoset-derived miracidia (marmoset group). Among the L.
columella parasitized by the marmoset group, the survival rate and the percentage
of positive snails were higher than among those parasitized by the cattle group. 
Eggs of F. hepatica released in cattle faeces were significantly bigger than
those released in marmoset faeces. Miracidia originating from parasites that
completed their development in cattle were more efficient in infecting the
intermediate host. These results suggest that vertebrate-host origin influences
the eggs produced by the parasite and the infection rates in the snail host L.
columella.

DOI: 10.1017/S0022149X07873585 
PMID: 18053300  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2332. Horm Behav. 2008 Jan;53(1):274-86. Epub 2007 Oct 17.

Post-conception reproductive competition in cooperatively breeding common
marmosets.

Saltzman W(1), Liedl KJ, Salper OJ, Pick RR, Abbott DH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of California, Riverside, CA 92521, USA.
saltzman@ucr.edu

Common marmosets are cooperatively breeding monkeys that exhibit high female
reproductive skew. Subordinate females usually fail to breed as a consequence of 
ovulation suppression and inhibition of sexual behavior, and, even when they do
breed, typically rear fewer infants than dominants. We evaluated possible
mechanisms of post-conception reproductive competition by comparing hormonal
profiles across pregnancy, pregnancy outcomes, infant survivorship, and behavior 
in laboratory-housed families containing one (N=9) or two (N=7) breeding females.
Breeding females in plurally breeding groups did not exhibit well-defined
dominance relationships and rarely engaged in escalated aggression with one
another. No significant differences were found among singly breeding mothers,
plurally breeding mothers, and plurally breeding daughters in urinary chorionic
gonadotropin or estradiol sulfate concentrations during pregnancy, fetal
biparietal diameter, frequency of spontaneous abortion, frequency of stillbirths,
number of live-born infants per litter, or infant mortality rates. When females
gave birth while another female in the family was pregnant, however, their
infants were highly likely to be killed. The perpetrator was definitively
identified in only one family, in which a pregnant female killed her daughter's
infant. These results are consistent with observations of free-living common
marmosets and suggest that breeding females do not regularly influence one
another's pregnancy outcomes, but that they may commonly kill each other's
infants, especially during their own pregnancy. Our findings further suggest that
infanticide by breeding females may have selected for the evolution of
reproductive restraint in subordinate female marmosets.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2007.10.005 
PMID: 18045596  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

