

2334. DNA Cell Biol. 2008 Jan;27(1):45-54.

The cotton-top tamarin (Saguinus oedipus) has five beta-microseminoprotein genes,
two of which are pseudogenes.

Valtonen-André C(1), Lundwall A.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Clinical Chemistry, Department of Laboratory Medicine, Lund
University, University Hospital MAS, Malmö, Sweden.

beta-Microseminoprotein (MSP) is one of the most abundant proteins in human
seminal plasma and is secreted from the prostate gland. Its evolution can be
traced from primates down to nonvertebrate species such as amphioxus, despite
substantial differences in the primary structure. Most mammals are known to have 
one single MSP gene, but we have previously shown that the cotton-top tamarin and
the common marmoset-two New World monkeys-carry several MSP genes. In this study 
we continue our characterization of MSP genes in the cotton-top tamarin by
presenting the full nucleotide sequence of the three previously identified genes,
mspA, mspE, and mspJ. A promoter analysis using the luciferase reporter showed
that mspE is as transcriptionally active as the single human MSP gene, whereas
mspA and mspJ display no activity with this assay. Two novel MSP genes were also 
identified, mspB and mspH, both of which are pseudogenes. MspB has a frameshift
mutation in the third exon resulting in a new C-terminus and premature stop of
translation. MspH has the features of a processed pseudogene, originating from a 
transcript of mspE. It is integrated into the genome together with another
processed pseudogene originating from a transcript of the nucleoporin gene NUP88.
The MSP genes described in this study probably arose by phylogenetically rather
late duplication or retrotransposition, suggesting that they are confined to a
limited number of New World monkeys.

DOI: 10.1089/dna.2007.0641 
PMID: 18020964  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2335. Mol Hum Reprod. 2007 Nov;13(11):781-9.

Regulation of tight junction proteins occludin and claudin 5 in the primate ovary
during the ovulatory cycle and after inhibition of vascular endothelial growth
factor.

Rodewald M(1), Herr D, Fraser HM, Hack G, Kreienberg R, Wulff C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Ulm, Prittwitzstrasse
43, 89075 Ulm, Germany.

Ovarian follicular and corpus luteum development, including angiogenesis, are
characterized by cell-cell rearrangements that may require dynamic changes in
cell-cell adhesion. The present study investigates the expression of tight
junction proteins occludin and claudin 5 during follicular and luteal development
in the primate ovary and after inhibition of vascular endothelial growth factor
(VEGF) by VEGF trap treatment. Occludin was localized to the plasma membrane of
granulosa cells. During follicular development occludin staining decreased
significantly (P < 0.05) and disappeared completely by the ovulatory stage. After
inhibition of VEGF, occludin staining was significantly (P < 0.05) higher in the 
granulosa of secondary and tertiary follicles compared with controls. Claudin 5
was exclusively localized to the theca vasculature. A significant (P < 0.05)
increase in staining was detected from the pre-antral to the antral and ovulatory
stage. However, dual staining with CD31 revealed that within the theca
endothelium the amount of claudin 5 remained constant during follicular
development. Treatment with VEGF trap throughout the follicular phase revealed a 
lack of claudin 5 staining in the theca interna but no difference was observed in
the remaining theca externa vasculature. In the corpus luteum, claudin 5 was also
localized in the vasculature. Treatment with VEGF trap in the mid-luteal phase
resulted in a significant increase in staining (P < 0.05). These results led us
to hypothesize that tight junctions are involved in regulation of follicular
growth, antrum transition and follicular angiogenesis which is compromised by
VEGF inhibition. VEGF may influence luteal vascular permeability by regulation of
the endothelial specific tight junction protein claudin 5.

DOI: 10.1093/molehr/gam066 
PMID: 18006538  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

