

2336. Behav Processes. 2008 Mar;77(3):351-6. Epub 2007 Oct 6.

Changes in experimental conditions alter anti-predator vigilance and sequence
predictability in captive marmosets.

Barros M(1), Alencar C, de Souza Silva MA, Tomaz C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, School of Health Sciences, University
of Brasilia, Brazil. mbarros@unb.br

Anti-predator vigilance and its sequence predictability in captive adult male
black tufted-ear marmosets (Callithrix penicillata) was analyzed under three
experimental conditions: (1) four novel (maze) environment habituation trials;
(2) six taxidermized (cat) predator confrontation trials in the same maze
environment; and (3) four additional maze-only trials, in the absence of the cat 
stimulus. Significant quantitative and qualitative differences (aerial vs.
terrestrial) were observed in scan and glance behaviors within and between the
three experimental conditions. Furthermore, inter-scan bout sequence
significantly deviated from randomness during the initial maze habituation and
predator confrontation trials, as well as during all predator removal trials.
This parameter, however, followed a random pattern during the course of the
remaining sessions. Therefore, vigilance in marmosets seems to be an important
and highly organized component of this species' anti-predation repertoire,
inasmuch as it occurs at high rates, alters according to specific environmental
cues and has a subtle differential adaptive response after repeated trials.

DOI: 10.1016/j.beproc.2007.10.001 
PMID: 18006248  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2337. Immunology. 2008 Apr;123(4):566-74. Epub 2007 Nov 14.

Isolation and characterization of dendritic cells from common marmosets for
preclinical cell therapy studies.

Ohta S(1), Ueda Y, Yaguchi M, Matsuzaki Y, Nakamura M, Toyama Y, Tanioka Y,
Tamaoki N, Nomura T, Okano H, Kawakami Y, Toda M.

Author information: 
(1)Neuroimmunology Research Group, Keio University School of Medicine, Tokyo,
Japan.

Dendritic cells (DCs) have important functions as modulators of immune responses,
and their ability to activate T cells is of great value in cancer immunotherapy. 
The isolation of DCs from the peripheral blood of rhesus and African green
monkeys has been reported, but the immune system in the common marmoset remains
poorly characterized, although it offers many potential advantages for
preclinical studies. In the present study, we devised methods, based on
techniques developed for mouse and human DC preparation, for isolating DCs from
three major tissue sources in the common marmoset: bone marrow (BM), spleen and
peripheral blood. Each set of separated cells was analysed using the cell surface
DC-associated markers CD11c, CD80, CD83, CD86 and human leucocyte antigen
(HLA)-DR, all of which are antibodies against human antigens, and the cells were 
further characterized both functionally and morphologically as antigen-presenting
cells. BM proved to be an excellent cell source for the isolation of DCs intended
for preclinical studies on cell therapy, for which large quantities of cells are 
required. In the BM-derived CD11c(+) cell population, cells exhibiting the
characteristic features of DCs were enriched, with the typical DC morphology and 
the abilities to undergo endocytosis, to secrete interleukin (IL)-12, and to
stimulate Xenogenic T cells. Moreover, BM-derived DCs produced the neurotrophic
factor NT-3, which is also found in murine splenic DCs. These results suggest
that BM-derived DCs from the common marmoset may be useful for biological
analysis and for preclinical studies on cell therapy for central nervous system
diseases and cancer.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2567.2007.02727.x 
PMCID: PMC2433308
PMID: 18005037  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

