

2339. J Cereb Blood Flow Metab. 2008 Apr;28(4):786-96. Epub 2007 Nov 14.

Intraluminal thread model of focal stroke in the non-human primate.

Freret T(1), Bouet V, Toutain J, Saulnier R, Pro-Sistiaga P, Bihel E, Mackenzie
ET, Roussel S, Schumann-Bard P, Touzani O.

Author information: 
(1)University of Caen, CNRS-UMR 6185, Cyceron, Caen, France.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a New World monkey, has recently been
used as a model of focal cerebral ischaemia. Here, we sought to develop a stroke 
model in this species using an intraluminal approach to occlude the middle
cerebral artery (MCA). This technically simple procedure allows both transient
and permanent ischaemia with minimal morbidity. Ten common marmosets underwent
either transient (3 h) or permanent ischaemia by the insertion of a nylon
filament through the external carotid artery up to the origin of the MCA.
Cerebral blood flow (CBF) was monitored by the laser-Doppler flowmetry technique.
Sensorimotor functions were regularly evaluated, and histologic,
immunohistochemical, and magnetic resonance imaging analyses were performed 8
days after the occlusion. The surgical procedure was achieved straightforwardly
without postoperative mortality or cerebral haemorrhage. All animals displayed a 
consistent decrease in CBF that remained stable over 3 h. Infarction affected
both cortical and subcortical structures. Although not statistically significant,
the volume of infarction was smaller in marmosets subjected to transient
ischaemia compared to those permanently occluded (237+/-139 and 358+/-118 mm3,
respectively). In all the behavioural tests used, reperfused marmosets exhibited 
fewer neurologic and functional impairments compared to permanently occluded
ones. We show the feasibility of the induction of permanent or transient focal
cerebral ischaemia in the marmoset using an intraluminal approach with minimal
invasion. This model could be suitable as an advanced screening for potential
stroke therapies in which behavioural, imaging, and histologic analyses can be
compared.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.jcbfm.9600575 
PMID: 18000514  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2340. J Vet Sci. 2007 Dec;8(4):329-33.

Immunolocalization of anion exchanger 1 (Band 3) in the renal collecting duct of 
the common marmoset.

Song JH(1), Kim YH, Kang TC, Won MH, Suh JG, Hyun BH, Oh YS, Ryu SY, Jung JY.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Veterinary Medicine and Institute of Veterinary Science,
Chungnam National University, Daejeon 305-764, Korea.

The purpose of this study was to determine the expression and distribution of
band 3 in the collecting duct and connecting tubules of the kidney of the
marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus), and to establish whether band 3 is
expressed in type A intercalated cells. The intracellular localization of band 3 
in the different populations of intercalated cells was determined by
double-labeling immunohistochemistry. Immunohistochemical microscopy demonstrated
that band 3 is located in the basolateral plasma membranes of all type A
intercalated cells in the connecting tubule (CNT), cortical collecting duct
(CCD), and outer medullary collecting duct (OMCD) of the marmoset. However, type 
B intercalated cells and non-A/non-B intercalated cells did not show band 3
labeling. Electron microscopy of the CNT, CCD and OMCD confirmed the light
microscopic observation of the basolateral plasma membrane staining for band 3 in
a subpopulation of interacted cells. Basolateral staining was seen on the plasma 
membrane and small coated vesicles in the perinuclear structure, some of which
were located in the Golgi region. In addition, there was no labeling of band 3 in
the mitochondria of the CNT, CCD and in OMCD cells. The intensity of the
immunostaining of the basolateral membrane was less in the CNT than in the CCD
and OMCD. In contrast, band 3 immunoreactivity was greater in the intracellular
vesicles of the CNT. From these results, we suggest that the basolateral
Cl(-)/HCO(3)(-) exchanger in the monkey kidney is in a more active state in the
collecting duct than in the CNT.

DOI: 10.4142/jvs.2007.8.4.329 
PMCID: PMC2868147
PMID: 17993745  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

