

2340. J Vet Sci. 2007 Dec;8(4):329-33.

Immunolocalization of anion exchanger 1 (Band 3) in the renal collecting duct of 
the common marmoset.

Song JH(1), Kim YH, Kang TC, Won MH, Suh JG, Hyun BH, Oh YS, Ryu SY, Jung JY.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Veterinary Medicine and Institute of Veterinary Science,
Chungnam National University, Daejeon 305-764, Korea.

The purpose of this study was to determine the expression and distribution of
band 3 in the collecting duct and connecting tubules of the kidney of the
marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus), and to establish whether band 3 is
expressed in type A intercalated cells. The intracellular localization of band 3 
in the different populations of intercalated cells was determined by
double-labeling immunohistochemistry. Immunohistochemical microscopy demonstrated
that band 3 is located in the basolateral plasma membranes of all type A
intercalated cells in the connecting tubule (CNT), cortical collecting duct
(CCD), and outer medullary collecting duct (OMCD) of the marmoset. However, type 
B intercalated cells and non-A/non-B intercalated cells did not show band 3
labeling. Electron microscopy of the CNT, CCD and OMCD confirmed the light
microscopic observation of the basolateral plasma membrane staining for band 3 in
a subpopulation of interacted cells. Basolateral staining was seen on the plasma 
membrane and small coated vesicles in the perinuclear structure, some of which
were located in the Golgi region. In addition, there was no labeling of band 3 in
the mitochondria of the CNT, CCD and in OMCD cells. The intensity of the
immunostaining of the basolateral membrane was less in the CNT than in the CCD
and OMCD. In contrast, band 3 immunoreactivity was greater in the intracellular
vesicles of the CNT. From these results, we suggest that the basolateral
Cl(-)/HCO(3)(-) exchanger in the monkey kidney is in a more active state in the
collecting duct than in the CNT.

DOI: 10.4142/jvs.2007.8.4.329 
PMCID: PMC2868147
PMID: 17993745  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2341. J Microbiol. 2007 Oct;45(5):431-40.

Natural iminosugar derivatives of 1-deoxynojirimycin inhibit glycosylation of
hepatitis viral envelope proteins.

Jacob JR(1), Mansfield K, You JE, Tennant BC, Kim YH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Sciences, College of Veterinary Medicine, Cornell
University, NY 14853, USA.

A silkworm (Bombyx mori L.) extract known to contain naturally occurring
iminosugars, including 1-deoxynojirimycin (1-DNJ) derived from the mulberry tree 
(Morus alba L.), was evaluated in surrogate HCV and HBV in vitro assays.
Antiviral activity of the silkworm extract and one of its purified constituents, 
1-DNJ, was demonstrated against bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) and GB virus-B
(GBV-B), both members of the Flaviviridae family, and against woodchuck hepatitis
virus (WHV) and hepatitis B virus (HBV), both members of the Hepadnaviridae
family of viruses. The silkworm extract exhibited a 1,300 fold greater antiviral 
effect against BVDV in comparison to purified 1-DNJ. Glycoprotein processing of
BVDV envelope proteins was disrupted upon treatment with the naturally derived
components. The glycosylation of the WHV envelope proteins was affected largely
by treatment with the silkworm extract than with purified 1-DNJ as well. The
mechanism of action for this therapy may lie in the generation of defective
particles that are unable to initiate the next cycle of infection as demonstrated
by inhibition of GBV-B in vitro. We postulate that the five constituent
iminosugars present in the silkworm extract contribute, in a synergistic manner, 
toward the antiviral effects observed for the inhibition of intact maturation of 
hepatitis viral particles and may complement conventional therapies. These
results indicate that pre-clinical testing of the natural silkworm extract with
regards to the efficacy of treatment against viral hepatitis infections can be
evaluated in the respective animal models, in preparation for clinical trials in 
humans.


PMID: 17978803  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

