

2350. Exp Neurol. 2007 Dec;208(2):177-84. Epub 2007 May 8.

The administration of entacapone prevents L-dopa-induced dyskinesia when added to
dopamine agonist therapy in MPTP-treated primates.

Zubair M(1), Jackson MJ, Tayarani-Binazir K, Stockwell KA, Smith LA, Rose S,
Olanow W, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Diseases Research Centre, School of Health and Biomedical
Sciences, King's College, London, SE1 1UL, UK.

More continuous delivery of l-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (l-dopa) achieved by
combination with the catechol-O-methyl transfer (COMT) inhibitor entacapone
reduces the onset of dyskinesia in MPTP-treated common marmosets compared with
pulsatile l-dopa regimens. We now investigate whether l-dopa delivery also
influences dyskinesia induction when added to dopamine agonist treatment.
Drug-naive 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine hydrochloride
(MPTP)-treated common marmosets were treated with ropinirole twice daily (BID)
for 14 days which reversed motor disability and increased locomotor activity with
minimal dyskinesia. Ropinirole treatment was continued but some animals also
received l-dopa BID or four times daily (QID) with and without entacapone or
vehicle for a further 16 days. Continuing ropinirole treatment alone maintained a
similar reversal of motor deficits and low levels of dyskinesia for the first 14 
days and the second 16 days. The addition of l-dopa BID or QID without entacapone
produced only a minor further reversal of motor deficits, but significantly
increased the intensity of dyskinesia. In contrast, the addition of l-dopa BID or
QID with entacapone also produced some further improvement in motor function with
the combination of entacapone and l-dopa BID significantly improving motor
disability compared to l-dopa alone, but no further increase in dyskinesia
intensity was observed compared with ropinirole alone treatment. The results show
that combined treatment with l-dopa and entacapone has a marked effect on
dyskinesia induction even when therapy has been introduced with a dopamine
agonist.

DOI: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2007.05.002 
PMID: 17935716  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2351. J Electron Microsc (Tokyo). 2007 Apr;56(2):63-7.

A novel nerve bundle containing thin muscle fibers in the posterior
cricoarytenoid muscle of the marmoset.

Desaki J, Nishida N.

We examined a novel nerve bundle in the posterior cricoarytenoid muscle of the
marmoset. This intramuscular nerve bundle contained two thin muscle fibers about 
10 microm in diameter, like intrafusal muscle fibers in the muscle spindle. These
thin muscle fibers were individually surrounded by nerve bundles consisting of
numerous nonmyelinated nerve fibers. Individual nerve axons contained clear
synaptic vesicles and large granulated vesicles, being possibly cholinergic
(parasympathetic) in nature. These nerve axons were often in contact with the
muscle fiber with and without an interposing basal lamina. Two thin muscle fibers
gradually terminated in the endoneural connective tissue around myelinated and
nonmyelinated nerve fibers during their course. The innervation of thin muscle
fibers in the novel nerve bundle is briefly discussed.

DOI: 10.1093/jmicro/dfm005 
PMID: 17928323  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

