

2351. J Electron Microsc (Tokyo). 2007 Apr;56(2):63-7.

A novel nerve bundle containing thin muscle fibers in the posterior
cricoarytenoid muscle of the marmoset.

Desaki J, Nishida N.

We examined a novel nerve bundle in the posterior cricoarytenoid muscle of the
marmoset. This intramuscular nerve bundle contained two thin muscle fibers about 
10 microm in diameter, like intrafusal muscle fibers in the muscle spindle. These
thin muscle fibers were individually surrounded by nerve bundles consisting of
numerous nonmyelinated nerve fibers. Individual nerve axons contained clear
synaptic vesicles and large granulated vesicles, being possibly cholinergic
(parasympathetic) in nature. These nerve axons were often in contact with the
muscle fiber with and without an interposing basal lamina. Two thin muscle fibers
gradually terminated in the endoneural connective tissue around myelinated and
nonmyelinated nerve fibers during their course. The innervation of thin muscle
fibers in the novel nerve bundle is briefly discussed.

DOI: 10.1093/jmicro/dfm005 
PMID: 17928323  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2352. Brain Res Bull. 2007 Nov 1;74(6):416-28. Epub 2007 Aug 6.

Evidence for hemispheric specialization in the marmoset (Callithrix penicillata) 
based on lateralization of behavioral/neurochemical correlations.

Silva MA(1), Topic B, Lamounier-Zepter V, Huston JP, Tomaz C, Barros M.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Physiological Psychology, University of Düsseldorf,
Universitätsstr. 1, 40225 Düsseldorf, Germany. desouza@uni-duesseldorf.de

A correlative study between behavioral, neurochemical and hormonal measures was
conducted on male black tufted-ear marmoset monkeys (Callithrix penicillata).
Behavioral analysis was performed in order to examine the effects of
confrontation with a natural predator (taxidermized oncilla cat, Felis tigrina). 
The subjects were subjected to four trials without predator, six confrontation
trials with predator present, and four trials with the predator removed.
Handedness was analyzed by the frequency with which they performed scratching,
grooming and hanging behaviors with the left or right hands. The animals' brains 
were subjected to ex vivo neurochemical analysis of several structures from both 
hemispheres. The content of monoamines, acetycholine and metabolites were
analyzed by HPLC-ED. Plasma levels of cortisol and adrenocorticotrophic hormone
(ACTH) were analyzed by chemoluminescence immunoassay. Testosterone plasma
concentration was determined by radioimmunoassay. Higher levels of dopamine and
acetylcholine were detected in the right caudate/putamen, in comparison to the
left. For the remaining areas, similar levels were observed in both hemispheres. 
A hand preference between and within the behaviors scored was not detected.
However, correlative analyses revealed complex interactions between the
behavioral and neurochemical measures, particularly in the left hemisphere.
Lateralized correlations were found in relation to brain site, type of behavior, 
neurochemical parameter and treatment condition, thus providing evidence for
functional brain asymmetries in this species. Interhemispheric comparisons of
neurochemical/behavioral correlations appear to be a promising approach towards
delineating hemispheric specialization of functions in this, and perhaps, other
species.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brainresbull.2007.07.012 
PMID: 17920450  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

