

2352. Brain Res Bull. 2007 Nov 1;74(6):416-28. Epub 2007 Aug 6.

Evidence for hemispheric specialization in the marmoset (Callithrix penicillata) 
based on lateralization of behavioral/neurochemical correlations.

Silva MA(1), Topic B, Lamounier-Zepter V, Huston JP, Tomaz C, Barros M.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Physiological Psychology, University of D체sseldorf,
Universit채tsstr. 1, 40225 D체sseldorf, Germany. desouza@uni-duesseldorf.de

A correlative study between behavioral, neurochemical and hormonal measures was
conducted on male black tufted-ear marmoset monkeys (Callithrix penicillata).
Behavioral analysis was performed in order to examine the effects of
confrontation with a natural predator (taxidermized oncilla cat, Felis tigrina). 
The subjects were subjected to four trials without predator, six confrontation
trials with predator present, and four trials with the predator removed.
Handedness was analyzed by the frequency with which they performed scratching,
grooming and hanging behaviors with the left or right hands. The animals' brains 
were subjected to ex vivo neurochemical analysis of several structures from both 
hemispheres. The content of monoamines, acetycholine and metabolites were
analyzed by HPLC-ED. Plasma levels of cortisol and adrenocorticotrophic hormone
(ACTH) were analyzed by chemoluminescence immunoassay. Testosterone plasma
concentration was determined by radioimmunoassay. Higher levels of dopamine and
acetylcholine were detected in the right caudate/putamen, in comparison to the
left. For the remaining areas, similar levels were observed in both hemispheres. 
A hand preference between and within the behaviors scored was not detected.
However, correlative analyses revealed complex interactions between the
behavioral and neurochemical measures, particularly in the left hemisphere.
Lateralized correlations were found in relation to brain site, type of behavior, 
neurochemical parameter and treatment condition, thus providing evidence for
functional brain asymmetries in this species. Interhemispheric comparisons of
neurochemical/behavioral correlations appear to be a promising approach towards
delineating hemispheric specialization of functions in this, and perhaps, other
species.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brainresbull.2007.07.012 
PMID: 17920450  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2353. Eur J Immunol. 2007 Nov;37(11):3229-39.

Relevant antibody subsets against MOG recognize conformational epitopes
exclusively exposed in solid-phase ELISA.

Menge T(1), von B체dingen HC, Lalive PH, Genain CP.

Author information: 
(1)University of California San Francisco, Department of Neurology, San Francisco
CA, USA.

A pathogenic role for circulating anti-myelin antibodies is difficult to
establish in multiple sclerosis (MS). Here, we unravel a broad heterogeneity
within the anti-myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG) antibodies in humans
and non-human primates, and demonstrate that detection of important epitopes of
MOG within the pathogenic repertoire is exclusively dependent on presentation on 
a solid-phase MOG conformer. Results of ELISA and those of a liquid-phase assay
were compared using a MOG protein with identical sequence but different
conformations. We tested sera from 50 human subjects, plasma of Callithrix
jacchus marmosets known to contain antibodies reactive to either conformational
or linearized MOG, and monoclonal, conformation-dependent anti-MOG antibodies. We
have found no antibody reactivity against the soluble MOG conformer in human
serum, and show that this lack of detection is not due to technical artifacts.
Rather, dominant epitopes of MOG are not displayed in soluble phase, as shown by 
a complete lack of binding of conformation-dependent mAb. In MP4-immune marmosets
that exhibit demyelinating pathology due to spreading of antibody determinants to
myelin-embedded MOG, only ELISA can detect pathogenic circulating anti-MOG
antibodies. Thus, the accurate detection of important subsets of pathogenic
anti-MOG antibodies requires methods in which MOG is displayed similarly to its
natural conformation in myelin.

DOI: 10.1002/eji.200737249 
PMID: 17918203  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

