

2354. Comp Biochem Physiol B Biochem Mol Biol. 2008 Jan;149(1):74-82. Epub 2007 Aug 30.

Fatty acid composition of wild anthropoid primate milks.

Milligan LA(1), Rapoport SI, Cranfield MR, Dittus W, Glander KE, Oftedal OT,
Power ML, Whittier CA, Bazinet RP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anthropology, University of California, Santa Cruz, CA 95064,
USA. lmilliga@ucsc.edu

Fatty acids in milk reflect the interplay between species-specific physiological 
mechanisms and maternal diet. Anthropoid primates (apes, Old and New World
monkeys) vary in patterns of growth and development and dietary strategies. Milk 
fatty acid profiles also are predicted to vary widely. This study investigates
milk fatty acid composition of five wild anthropoids (Alouatta palliata,
Callithrix jacchus, Gorilla beringei beringei, Leontopithecus rosalia, Macaca
sinica) to test the null hypothesis of a generalized anthropoid milk fatty acid
composition. Milk from New and Old World monkeys had significantly more 8:0 and
10:0 than milk from apes. The leaf eating species G. b. beringei and A. paliatta 
had a significantly higher proportion of milk 18:3n-3, a fatty acid found
primarily in plant lipids. Mean percent composition of 22:6n-3 was significantly 
different among monkeys and apes, but was similar to the lowest reported values
for human milk. Mountain gorillas were unique among anthropoids in the high
proportion of milk 20:4n-6. This seems to be unrelated to requirements of a
larger brain and may instead reflect species-specific metabolic processes or an
unknown source of this fatty acid in the mountain gorilla diet.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cbpb.2007.08.006 
PMID: 17916436  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2355. Brain Res Rev. 2008 Mar;57(2):596-605. Epub 2007 Sep 5.

Postnatal ontogeny of expression of the corticosteroid receptor genes in
mammalian brains: inter-species and intra-species differences.

Pryce CR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Neuroscience/Psychiatry, Novartis Institutes for Biomedical Research, Novartis
Pharma AG, Basel, Switzerland. Christopher.pryce@novartis.com

Corticosteroids are important mediators of homeostasis and stress, and exert
their effects via two transcription-factor receptors, mineralocorticoid receptor 
(MR) and glucocorticoid receptor (GR). Both receptors are expressed in the brain 
in a region-specific manner, and regulate neuroendocrine and behavioral
functions. Stress during early development has been demonstrated to lead to
long-term alterations in MR and GR levels and in the phenotypes that they
mediate. To date, however, nearly all of this evidence has been obtained in rats,
and there is actually no clear basis for extrapolation to other species. The
current comparative review presents data, as available, on the following aspects 
of GR and MR gene expression in mouse and rat (Rodentia), tree shrew
(Scandentia), common marmoset, squirrel monkey, rhesus macaque and human
(Primates): (1) species-typical adult expression of MR mRNA and GR mRNA in
hypothalamus, amygdala, hippocampus and neocortex; (2) species-typical neonate,
infant, juvenile/adolescent and adult expression of MR mRNA and GR mRNA in
hippocampus. (1) and (2) allow for identification of inter-species consistencies 
and differences in the relative levels of MR and GR expression across brain
regions and ontogenetic stages. In addition, data are presented on (3)
within-species inter-individual variation in MR and GR expression and causes
thereof, including polymorphism and early life stress. Integrating the evidence
in (1)-(3), it is noted that, should the expression levels of MR and GR at the
time of early-life stress determine the latter's effects on the formers'
long-term expression levels and functioning, then the long-term effects of early 
life stress on corticosteroid receptor expression and function will be species-, 
brain-region- and receptor-type-specific.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brainresrev.2007.08.005 
PMID: 17916381  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

