

2355. Brain Res Rev. 2008 Mar;57(2):596-605. Epub 2007 Sep 5.

Postnatal ontogeny of expression of the corticosteroid receptor genes in
mammalian brains: inter-species and intra-species differences.

Pryce CR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Neuroscience/Psychiatry, Novartis Institutes for Biomedical Research, Novartis
Pharma AG, Basel, Switzerland. Christopher.pryce@novartis.com

Corticosteroids are important mediators of homeostasis and stress, and exert
their effects via two transcription-factor receptors, mineralocorticoid receptor 
(MR) and glucocorticoid receptor (GR). Both receptors are expressed in the brain 
in a region-specific manner, and regulate neuroendocrine and behavioral
functions. Stress during early development has been demonstrated to lead to
long-term alterations in MR and GR levels and in the phenotypes that they
mediate. To date, however, nearly all of this evidence has been obtained in rats,
and there is actually no clear basis for extrapolation to other species. The
current comparative review presents data, as available, on the following aspects 
of GR and MR gene expression in mouse and rat (Rodentia), tree shrew
(Scandentia), common marmoset, squirrel monkey, rhesus macaque and human
(Primates): (1) species-typical adult expression of MR mRNA and GR mRNA in
hypothalamus, amygdala, hippocampus and neocortex; (2) species-typical neonate,
infant, juvenile/adolescent and adult expression of MR mRNA and GR mRNA in
hippocampus. (1) and (2) allow for identification of inter-species consistencies 
and differences in the relative levels of MR and GR expression across brain
regions and ontogenetic stages. In addition, data are presented on (3)
within-species inter-individual variation in MR and GR expression and causes
thereof, including polymorphism and early life stress. Integrating the evidence
in (1)-(3), it is noted that, should the expression levels of MR and GR at the
time of early-life stress determine the latter's effects on the formers'
long-term expression levels and functioning, then the long-term effects of early 
life stress on corticosteroid receptor expression and function will be species-, 
brain-region- and receptor-type-specific.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brainresrev.2007.08.005 
PMID: 17916381  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2356. Mol Cell Endocrinol. 2007 Dec 15;279(1-2):9-15. Epub 2007 Aug 30.

LHR splicing variants and gene expression in the marmoset monkey.

Michel C(1), Gromoll J, Chandolia R, Luetjens CM, Wistuba J, Simoni M.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Reproductive Medicine of the University, Domagkstrasse 11,
D-48149 Muenster, Germany.

In the marmoset monkey, the LHR type II, lacking exon 10, is the native receptor 
type. We characterised the LHR splicing pattern in marmoset testes and the
adrenals during puberty and in pre- and postpubertal ovaries and quantified mRNA 
LHR expression in the testis. We detected 11 LHR splicing variants expressed at
similar levels and generated by exon skipping and/or usage of cryptic splice
sites. No preferred splicing variant during pubertal maturation was observed in
both sexes. Testicular and adrenal LHR expression levels did not significantly
change with age. However, a significant increase during pubertal maturation for
the serum testosterone/LHR ratio indicated that testosterone secretion increases 
in the presence of constant LHR mRNA expression levels. We conclude that LHR
splicing in the marmoset displays a homogenous pattern and that the main function
of the LHR is established in the testis, reaching its highest efficiency during
pubertal maturation.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mce.2007.08.009 
PMID: 17913340  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

