

2357. Neurobiol Learn Mem. 2008 May;89(4):604-7. Epub 2007 Sep 29.

Memory for time of training modulates performance on a place conditioning task in
marmosets.

Valentinuzzi VS(1), Neto SP, Carneiro BT, Santana KS, Araújo JF, Ralph MR.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Fisiologia, Centro de Biociências, Universidade Federal de Rio
Grande do Norte, RN, Brazil. vvalentinuzzi@crilar-conicet.com.ar

In rodents, the expression of a reward-conditioned place preference (CPP) is
regulated in a circadian pattern such that the preference is exhibited strongly
at the circadian time of prior training but not at other circadian times. Because
each animal is trained only at a single circadian phase, the concept of time as a
context cue is derived from a rhythmic internal state rather than learned
explicitly from the external cues. We now report that the same "time memory" is
expressed following context conditioning in the common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus). Animals were trained at a specific time to discriminate between an
unpaired context and a context paired with food reward. Marmosets were then
tested for preference at circadian times that were either the same or different
from the training time. Preference was expressed only when training and testing
times matched. The results show that time of day learning can be generalized to
this new world primate implying that a similar circadian mechanism might regulate
craving for reward in diverse mammals including human beings.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nlm.2007.08.002 
PMID: 17904878  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2358. Neurobiol Aging. 2009 May;30(5):697-716. Epub 2007 Sep 27.

Age-related accumulation of Reelin in amyloid-like deposits.

Knuesel I(1), Nyffeler M, Mormède C, Muhia M, Meyer U, Pietropaolo S, Yee BK,
Pryce CR, LaFerla FM, Marighetto A, Feldon J.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Pharmacology and Toxicology, University of Zurich,
Winterthurerstrasse 190, 8057 Zurich, Switzerland. knuesel@pharma.uzh.ch

Accumulating evidence suggest that alterations in Reelin-mediated signaling may
contribute to neuronal dysfunction associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD), the 
most common form of senile dementia. However, limited information is available on
the effect of age, the major risk factor of AD, on Reelin expression. Here, we
report that normal aging in rodents and primates is accompanied by accumulation
of Reelin-enriched proteinous aggregates in the hippocampal formation that are
related to the loss of Reelin-expressing neurons. Both phenomena are associated
with age-related memory impairments in wild-type mice. We provide evidence that
normal aging involves loss of Reelin neurons, reduced production and elimination 
of the extracellular deposits, whereas a prenatal immune challenge or the
expression of AD-causing gene products, result in earlier, higher, and more
persistent levels of Reelin-positive deposits. These aggregates co-localize with 
non-fibrillary amyloid-plaques, potentially representing oligomeric Abeta
species. Our findings suggest that elevated Reelin plaque load creates a
precursor condition for senile plaque deposition and may represent a critical
risk factor for sporadic AD.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2007.08.011 
PMID: 17904250  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

