

2361. Psychopharmacology (Berl). 2008 Jan;195(4):509-16. Epub 2007 Sep 19.

Neurobehavioral protection by single dose l-deprenyl against MPTP-induced
parkinsonism in common marmosets.

Ando K(1), Maeda J, Inaji M, Okauchi T, Obayashi S, Higuchi M, Suhara T, Tanioka 
Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Marmoset Research, Central Institute for Experimental Animals,
1430 Nogawa, Miyamaeku, Kawasaki 216-0001, Japan. ando@ciea.or.jp

OBJECTIVE: Establishment of preclinical method evaluating behavioral protective
actions of drugs for Parkinson's disease was attempted using l-deprenyl (DEP) as 
a reference drug in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1, 2, 3, 6-tetrahydropyridine
(MPTP)-treated common marmosets.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Fifteen marmosets received MPTP at 2 mg/kg, subcutaneously
(s.c.) per day for three consecutive days. To these marmosets, intragastric
(i.g.) administration of DEP at 10 mg/kg was pretreated 2 h before each MPTP
administration in DEP3 group and pretreated only in the first MPTP administration
day in DEP1 group. As a control, distilled water (DW) was pretreated before each 
MPTP administration (n = 5 for each of three groups).
RESULTS: In DW group, decreased daily activity counts and increased dysfunction
scores were persistently observed for 3 weeks after MPTP. In DEP groups, the
similar changes of both levels to those in DW group were temporally observed
after MPTP for several days and then the values recovered to the pre-MPTP levels.
The results of autoradiography performed after above behavioral observations
indicated that markedly lower bindings of [(11)C]PE2I (ligand for dopamine
transporters) were observed at the striatum of DW group marmoset as compared with
the striatum of additionally prepared MPTP-free marmoset (n = 5). The bindings in
DEP groups were almost the same as in the MPTP-free marmoset brains.
CONCLUSION: The present preclinical methods using continuous recording of
activity of marmosets in their living cages and autoradiography using dopamine
transporter ligand might be sensitive for detecting protective actions of drugs
for Parkinson's disease.

DOI: 10.1007/s00213-007-0929-2 
PMID: 17879087  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2362. Endocrinology. 2007 Dec;148(12):6062-72. Epub 2007 Sep 13.

Chorionic gonadotropin beta-subunit gene expression in the marmoset pituitary is 
controlled by steroidogenic factor 1, early growth response protein 1, and
pituitary homeobox factor 1.

Henke A(1), Luetjens CM, Simoni M, Gromoll J.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Reproductive Medicine, University Clinic Münster, Domagkstrasse
11, Münster, Germany.

In most mammals, the gonads are under the control of the pituitary gonadotropins 
LH and FSH. However, in the common marmoset monkey Callithrix jacchus, no LH is
detectable in the pituitary but chorionic gonadotropin (CG) instead, normally
produced in the placenta. This study investigated the mechanism of CGbeta subunit
activation in the pituitary and why humans do not express CG in the pituitary.
5'-Rapid amplification of cDNA ends, EMSA, and promoter-driven luciferase assays 
performed with the gonadotropic LbetaT2 cells showed that marmoset monkey CGbeta 
is GnRH responsive and activated similar to human LHbeta by the transcription
factors steroidogenic factor 1 (SF1), early growth response protein 1 (Egr1), and
pituitary homeobox factor 1 (Pitx1) and displayed a transcriptional start site 7 
bp upstream of exon 1. In contrast, the human CGbeta promoter displayed in the
binding elements for pituitary homeobox factor 1 and early growth response
protein 1 three consensus sequence mismatches, leading to very low activity that 
could be drastically increased by mutation to the consensus sequences. Vice
versa, marmoset CGbeta promoter activity was reduced after introduction of the
human CGbeta mismatches. An in vivo study in pregnant marmoset monkeys showed
that during pregnancy, there is no significant decrease of pituitary CG
production, contrasting human LH down-regulation. In conclusion, pituitary CG
production is lacking in humans due to the absence of appropriate DNA-binding
elements, which are present in marmosets, thereby enabling GnRH activation of
expression. However, during pregnancy of marmosets, pituitary CG expression is
not inhibited.

DOI: 10.1210/en.2007-0825 
PMID: 17872365  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

