

2363. BMC Evol Biol. 2007 Aug 16;7 Suppl 2:S11.

Phylogenomics of species from four genera of New World monkeys by flow sorting
and reciprocal chromosome painting.

Dumas F(1), Stanyon R, Sineo L, Stone G, Bigoni F.

Author information: 
(1)Dipartimento di Biologia animale, Università degli Studi di Palermo, via
Archirafi 18, Palermo, Italy. labhomo@unipa.it

BACKGROUND: The taxonomic and phylogenetic relationships of New World monkeys
(Platyrrhini) are difficult to distinguish on the basis of morphology and because
diagnostic fossils are rare. Recently, molecular data have led to a radical
revision of the traditional taxonomy and phylogeny of these primates. Here we
examine new hypotheses of platyrrhine evolutionary relationships by reciprocal
chromosome painting after chromosome flow sorting of species belonging to four
genera of platyrrhines included in the Cebidae family: Callithrix argentata
(silvered-marmoset), Cebuella pygmaea (pygmy marmoset), Callimico goeldii
(Goeldi's marmoset) and Saimiri sciureus (squirrel monkey). This is the first
report of reciprocal painting in marmosets.
RESULTS: The paints made from chromosome flow sorting of the four platyrrhine
monkeys provided from 42 to 45 hybridization signals on human metaphases. The
reciprocal painting of monkey probes on human chromosomes revealed that 21
breakpoints are common to all four studied species. There are only three
additional breakpoints. A breakpoint on human chromosome 13 was found in
Callithrix argentata, Cebuella pygmaea and Callimico goeldii, but not in Saimiri 
sciureus. There are two additional breakpoints on human chromosome 5: one is
specific to squirrel monkeys, and the other to Goeldi's marmoset.
CONCLUSION: The reciprocal painting results support the molecular genomic
assemblage of Cebidae. We demonstrated that the five chromosome associations
previously hypothesized to phylogenetically link tamarins and marmosets are
homologous and represent derived chromosome rearrangements. Four of these derived
homologous associations tightly nest Callimico goeldii with marmosets. One
derived association 2/15 may place squirrel monkeys within the Cebidae
assemblage. An apparently common breakpoint on chromosome 5q33 found in both
Saimiri and Aotus nancymae could be evidence of a phylogenetic link between these
species. Comparison with previous reports shows that many syntenic associations
found in platyrrhines have the same breakpoints and are homologous, derived
rearrangements showing that the New World monkeys are a closely related group of 
species. Our data support the hypothesis that the ancestral karyotype of the
Platyrrhini has a diploid number of 2n = 54 and is almost identical to that found
today in capuchin monkeys; congruent with a basal position of the Cebidae among
platyrrhine families.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2148-7-S2-S11 
PMCID: PMC1963484
PMID: 17767727  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2364. J Med Chem. 2007 Oct 4;50(20):4832-44. Epub 2007 Sep 8.

Structural modification of the P2' position of 2,7-dialkyl-substituted
5(S)-amino-4(S)-hydroxy-8-phenyl-octanecarboxamides: the discovery of aliskiren, 
a potent nonpeptide human renin inhibitor active after once daily dosing in
marmosets.

Maibaum J(1), Stutz S, Göschke R, Rigollier P, Yamaguchi Y, Cumin F, Rahuel J,
Baum HP, Cohen NC, Schnell CR, Fuhrer W, Gruetter MG, Schilling W, Wood JM.

Author information: 
(1)Novartis Institutes for BioMedical Research, NOVARTIS Pharma AG, WKL-136.683, 
CH-4002 Basel, Switzerland. juergen_klaus.maibaum@novartis.com

Due to its function in the rate limiting initial step of the renin-angiotensin
system, renin is a particularly promising target for drugs designed to control
hypertension, a growing risk to health worldwide. Despite vast efforts over more 
than two decades, no orally efficacious renin inhibitor had reached the market.
As a result of a structure-based topological design approach, we have identified 
a novel class of small-molecule inhibitors with good oral blood-pressure lowering
effects in primates. Further lead optimization aimed for improvement of in vivo
potency and duration of action, mainly by P2' modifications at the
hydroxyethylene transition-state isostere. These efforts resulted in the
discovery of aliskiren (46, CGP060536B, SPP100), a highly potent, selective
inhibitor of renin, demonstrating excellent efficacy in sodium-depleted marmosets
after oral administration, with sustained duration of action in reducing
dose-dependently mean arterial blood pressure. Aliskiren has recently received
regulatory approval by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for the treatment of
hypertension.

DOI: 10.1021/jm070316i 
PMID: 17824680  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

