

2367. J Comp Neurol. 2007 Oct 20;504(6):646-58.

Developmental changes in cellular prion protein in primate visual cortex.

Laffont-Proust I(1), Fonta C, Renaud L, Hässig R, Moya KL.

Author information: 
(1)Institut National de la Santé et de la Recherche Médicale Avenir Team--Human
Prion Diseases, IFR70, Neuropathology, Salpêtrière Hospital, Paris 75013, France.

Cellular prion protein (PrP(c)) is a cell surface glycoprotein highly expressed
in neurons, and a protease-resistant conformer of the protein accumulates in the 
brain parenchyma in prion diseases. In human prion diseases, visual cortex and
visual function can be affected. We examined both the levels and the localization
of PrP(c) in developing visual cortex of the common marmoset. Western blot
analysis showed that PrP(c) increased from the day of birth through adulthood,
and this increase correlated with the progression of synapse formation.
Immunohistochemistry showed that PrP(c) was present in fiber tracts of the
neonate, and this immunoreactivity was lost with maturation. Within the neuropil,
the laminar distribution of PrP(c) changed with age. In the neonate, PrP(c)
immunoreactivity was strongest in layer 1, where the earliest synapses form. At
the end of the first postnatal week, layer 4C, as identified by its strong
cytochrome oxidase activity, was noticeably lighter in terms of PrP(c)
immunoreactivity than the adjacent layers. The contrast between the strong
immunoreactivity in both supragranular and infragranular layers and weak
immunoreactivity in layer 4C increased with age. Layers 2/3 and 5 contained more 
intense PrP(c) immunoreactivity; these layers receive thalamic input from the
koniocellular division of the LGN, and these layers of the LGN also had strong
PrP(c) immunoreactivity. Together, these results provide evidence for PrP(c)
localization in an identified functional pathway and may shed some light on prion
disease pathogenesis.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.21475 
PMID: 17722030  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2368. Theriogenology. 2007 Oct 1;68(6):861-72. Epub 2007 Aug 21.

Effects of ovarian stimulation, with and without human chorionic gonadotrophin,
on oocyte meiotic and developmental competence in the marmoset monkey (Callithrix
jacchus).

Grupen CG(1), Gilchrist RB, Nayudu PL, Barry MF, Schulz SJ, Ritter LJ, Armstrong 
DT.

Author information: 
(1)Research Centre for Reproductive Health, School of Paediatrics and
Reproductive Health, The University of Adelaide, Adelaide, SA 5005, Australia.
cgrupen@vetsci.usyd.edu.au

A reliable ovarian stimulation protocol for marmosets is needed to enhance their 
use as a model for studying human and non-human primate oocyte biology. In this
species, a standard dose of hCG did not effectively induce oocyte maturation in
vivo. The objectives of this study were to characterize ovarian response to an
FSH priming regimen in marmosets, given without or with a high dose of hCG, and
to determine the meiotic and developmental competence of the oocytes isolated.
Ovaries were removed from synchronized marmosets treated with FSH alone (50 IU/d 
for 6 d) or the same FSH treatment combined with a single injection of hCG (500
IU). Cumulus-oocyte complexes (COCs) were isolated from large (>1.5mm) and small 
(0.7-1.5mm) antral follicles. In vivo-matured oocytes were subsequently activated
parthenogenetically or fertilized in vitro. Immature oocytes were subjected to in
vitro maturation and then activated parthenogenetically. Treatment with FSH and
hCG combined increased the number of expanded COCs from large antral follicles
compared with FSH alone (23.5 +/- 9.3 versus 6.4 +/- 2.7, mean +/- S.E.M.).
Approximately 90% of oocytes surrounded by expanded cumulus cells at the time of 
isolation were meiotically mature. A blastocyst formation rate of 47% was
achieved following fertilization of in vivo-matured oocytes, whereas
parthenogenetic activation failed to induce development to the blastocyst stage. 
The capacity of oocytes to complete meiosis in vitro and cleave was positively
correlated with follicle diameter. A dramatic effect of follicle size on spindle 
formation was observed in oocytes that failed to complete meiosis in vitro. Using
the combined FSH and hCG regimen described in this study, large numbers of in
vivo matured marmoset oocytes could be reliably collected in a single cycle,
making the marmoset a valuable model for studying oocyte maturation in human and 
non-human primates.

DOI: 10.1016/j.theriogenology.2007.07.009 
PMID: 17714774  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

