

2368. Theriogenology. 2007 Oct 1;68(6):861-72. Epub 2007 Aug 21.

Effects of ovarian stimulation, with and without human chorionic gonadotrophin,
on oocyte meiotic and developmental competence in the marmoset monkey (Callithrix
jacchus).

Grupen CG(1), Gilchrist RB, Nayudu PL, Barry MF, Schulz SJ, Ritter LJ, Armstrong 
DT.

Author information: 
(1)Research Centre for Reproductive Health, School of Paediatrics and
Reproductive Health, The University of Adelaide, Adelaide, SA 5005, Australia.
cgrupen@vetsci.usyd.edu.au

A reliable ovarian stimulation protocol for marmosets is needed to enhance their 
use as a model for studying human and non-human primate oocyte biology. In this
species, a standard dose of hCG did not effectively induce oocyte maturation in
vivo. The objectives of this study were to characterize ovarian response to an
FSH priming regimen in marmosets, given without or with a high dose of hCG, and
to determine the meiotic and developmental competence of the oocytes isolated.
Ovaries were removed from synchronized marmosets treated with FSH alone (50 IU/d 
for 6 d) or the same FSH treatment combined with a single injection of hCG (500
IU). Cumulus-oocyte complexes (COCs) were isolated from large (>1.5mm) and small 
(0.7-1.5mm) antral follicles. In vivo-matured oocytes were subsequently activated
parthenogenetically or fertilized in vitro. Immature oocytes were subjected to in
vitro maturation and then activated parthenogenetically. Treatment with FSH and
hCG combined increased the number of expanded COCs from large antral follicles
compared with FSH alone (23.5 +/- 9.3 versus 6.4 +/- 2.7, mean +/- S.E.M.).
Approximately 90% of oocytes surrounded by expanded cumulus cells at the time of 
isolation were meiotically mature. A blastocyst formation rate of 47% was
achieved following fertilization of in vivo-matured oocytes, whereas
parthenogenetic activation failed to induce development to the blastocyst stage. 
The capacity of oocytes to complete meiosis in vitro and cleave was positively
correlated with follicle diameter. A dramatic effect of follicle size on spindle 
formation was observed in oocytes that failed to complete meiosis in vitro. Using
the combined FSH and hCG regimen described in this study, large numbers of in
vivo matured marmoset oocytes could be reliably collected in a single cycle,
making the marmoset a valuable model for studying oocyte maturation in human and 
non-human primates.

DOI: 10.1016/j.theriogenology.2007.07.009 
PMID: 17714774  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2369. Eur J Neurosci. 2007 Aug;26(4):992-1006.

Spatial receptive field properties of lateral geniculate cells in the owl monkey 
(Aotus azarae) at different contrasts: a comparative study.

Kilavik BE(1), Silveira LC, Kremers J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Ophthalmology, University of Tübingen Eye Hospital,
Röntgenweg 11, D-72076 Tübingen, Germany.

Several physiological properties of owl monkey lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN)
cells were studied to verify whether its nocturnal habit has an influence on the 
organization of its subcortical visual system. Receptive field (RF) dimensions
were measured using drifting gratings and bipartite field stimuli. We found that 
owl monkey cells LGN have larger RFs and were on average more non-linear than
those of diurnal monkeys. But, as in other anthropoids, there is an increase in
RF centre size with increasing eccentricity, and there is a limited correlation
between these centre sizes and retinal ganglion cell dendritic tree sizes. The
influence of contrast on sizes and peak sensitivities of RF centres and surrounds
and on the response phases was studied. Both the sizes and peak sensitivities of 
the RF centres and surrounds decrease as contrast increases. As a result, the
responses to low spatial frequency stimuli saturate with increasing contrast.
Estimates of contrasts at half-maximal responses confirm the presence of
saturation. It was found that the magnocellular cells saturate more strongly than
parvocellular cells. The response phase increases with increasing contrast. These
data resemble those obtained in the common marmoset, indicating that these are
basic features of the primate visual system. We conclude that during evolution
and as an adaptation to a nocturnal lifestyle, cells in the owl monkey LGN
display an increased spatial integration in comparison with diurnal primate
species, without a change in the basic organization common to the primate
subcortical visual system.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2007.05709.x 
PMID: 17714192  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

