

2369. Eur J Neurosci. 2007 Aug;26(4):992-1006.

Spatial receptive field properties of lateral geniculate cells in the owl monkey 
(Aotus azarae) at different contrasts: a comparative study.

Kilavik BE(1), Silveira LC, Kremers J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Ophthalmology, University of Tübingen Eye Hospital,
Röntgenweg 11, D-72076 Tübingen, Germany.

Several physiological properties of owl monkey lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN)
cells were studied to verify whether its nocturnal habit has an influence on the 
organization of its subcortical visual system. Receptive field (RF) dimensions
were measured using drifting gratings and bipartite field stimuli. We found that 
owl monkey cells LGN have larger RFs and were on average more non-linear than
those of diurnal monkeys. But, as in other anthropoids, there is an increase in
RF centre size with increasing eccentricity, and there is a limited correlation
between these centre sizes and retinal ganglion cell dendritic tree sizes. The
influence of contrast on sizes and peak sensitivities of RF centres and surrounds
and on the response phases was studied. Both the sizes and peak sensitivities of 
the RF centres and surrounds decrease as contrast increases. As a result, the
responses to low spatial frequency stimuli saturate with increasing contrast.
Estimates of contrasts at half-maximal responses confirm the presence of
saturation. It was found that the magnocellular cells saturate more strongly than
parvocellular cells. The response phase increases with increasing contrast. These
data resemble those obtained in the common marmoset, indicating that these are
basic features of the primate visual system. We conclude that during evolution
and as an adaptation to a nocturnal lifestyle, cells in the owl monkey LGN
display an increased spatial integration in comparison with diurnal primate
species, without a change in the basic organization common to the primate
subcortical visual system.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2007.05709.x 
PMID: 17714192  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2370. J Comp Psychol. 2007 Aug;121(3):332-44.

Activity of common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) in limited spaces: hand
movement characteristics.

Przybyszewski AW(1), Sosale S, Chaudhuri A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, McGill University, Montreal, PQ, Canada.
przy@ego.psych.mcgill.ca

The increasing popularity of marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) in anatomical,
behavioral, and electrophysiological studies has called for a detailed analysis
of their natural behavior within limited spaces. In the present study, the
authors analyzed hand movements during horizontal and vertical progressions in a 
cylinder. The trajectory of each hand covered the entire cylinder floor during
horizontal progressions and the entire cylinder wall during vertical
progressions. Different marmosets have different patterns of hand movement. The
average maximum angle of hand movements for all marmosets during horizontal and
vertical progressions oscillates, although the average over time is constant and 
similar for both hands, whereas head movements during horizontal progressions
become smaller with successive progressions. Another observed difference between 
rats and monkeys was in the size of head and hand movements at the beginning of
each experimental session. During the 1st horizontal progression, all marmosets
moved their heads to a greater extent than their hands. This sequential head and 
hand movement is referred as bistable behavior. The bistable pattern of motor
behavior, which was also observed in successive progressions, may be derived from
an inherent fear of predators or exploratory interest of a novel environment.

DOI: 10.1037/0735-7036.121.3.332 
PMID: 17696659  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

