

2373. J Comp Neurol. 2007 Oct 1;504(4):427-39.

Molecular, cellular, and functional characterizations of pituitary adenylate
cyclase-activating polypeptide and its receptors in the cerebellum of New and Old
World monkeys.

Aubert N(1), Basille M, Falluel-Morel A, Vaudry D, Bucharles C, Jolivel V, Fisch 
C, De Jouffrey S, Le Bigot JF, Fournier A, Vaudry H, Gonzalez BJ.

Author information: 
(1)Institut National de la Santé et de la Recherche Médicale (INSERM) U413,
Laboratory of Cellular and Molecular Neuroendocrinology, European Institute for
Peptide Research (IFRMP 23), University of Rouen, 76821 Mont-Saint-Aignan,
France.

The neuropeptide pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP)
exerts trophic activities during cerebellar development, and a neuroprotective
effect of PACAP has been demonstrated in pathological conditions such as stroke. 
However, all these data have been obtained in rodents, and neuroprotective
effects of PACAP in primates remain unknown. Because of their evolutionary
relationships with humans, monkeys represent powerful models for validating the
therapeutic interest in PACAP. The objective of the present study was to
characterize PACAP and its receptors in the cerebellum of two nonhuman primates. 
RT-PCR and in situ hybridization experiments revealed that PACAP is expressed in 
the cerebellum by Purkinje cells. Via immunohistochemistry, PACAP was detected in
Purkinje cells and radial glial fibers. With regard to PACAP receptors, PAC1-R
and VPAC1-R were detected by RT-PCR. In situ hybridization revealed a strong
expression of PAC1-R and VPAC1-R in the granule cell layer (GCL), and VPAC1-R was
also expressed in the Purkinje cell layer. A high density of PACAP binding sites 
was visualized in the GCL and the Purkinje cell layer. Competition studies
indicated that, in the GCL, PACAP induced complete displacement of
[(125)I]PACAP27 binding, whereas vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) was a
weak competitor. In contrast, in the Purkinje cell layer, both PACAP and VIP
displaced [(125)I]PACAP27 binding. Measurement of cAMP levels showed that PACAP
is a powerful activator of adenylyl cyclase, whereas VIP is about 100-fold less
potent. Altogether, these observations constitute the first demonstration of a
functional PACAPergic system in monkey cerebellum. They strongly suggest that
neuroprotective effects of PACAP can be transposed to primates, including human.

(c) 2007 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.21451 
PMID: 17663433  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2374. Reproduction. 2007 Aug;134(2):341-53.

Oestrogen and progesterone receptors in the marmoset endometrium: changes during 
the ovulatory cycle, early pregnancy and after inhibition of vascular endothelial
growth factor, GnRH or ovariectomy.

Silvestri A(1), Fraser HM.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council Human Reproductive Sciences Unit, The Queen's Medical
Research Institute, 47 Little France Crescent, Edinburgh EH16 4TJ, UK.

Marmosets are widely used, but detailed studies on localisation of endometrial
oestrogen receptors alpha and beta (ER alpha and ER beta ), and the progesterone 
receptor (PR) are lacking. These receptors were localised and semi-quantitatively
analysed throughout the ovulatory cycle, weeks 2, 3 and 4 of pregnancy and after 
treatment with GnRH antagonist, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) Trap or
ovariectomy. The PR in epithelial cells increased markedly between the mid- and
late proliferative phases before declining in the mid-secretory phase and
pregnancy. PR in stromal cells was present throughout the cycle and levels were
maintained in pregnancy. ER alpha was present at the mid-proliferative phase and 
increased in glands at the late proliferative and early secretory phases, before 
declining at the late secretory phase and week 4 of pregnancy. Stromal ER alpha
showed a similar trend, but decreased earlier, by the mid-secretory phase. ER
beta was highly expressed in epithelial cells throughout the cycle and in
pregnancy. In stroma, increases in ER beta expression were observed at the late
proliferative phase with the staining index decreasing by half as the secretory
phase progressed and in pregnancy. GnRH antagonist, VEGF Trap or ovariectomy
caused significant reductions in PR and ER beta expression, but not in ER alpha
when compared with the late proliferative phase of the normal cycle. Endothelial 
cells expressed ER beta , but not ER alpha or PR. It is concluded that the
steroid receptor profile in the marmoset endometrium is generally similar to the 
human and should provide a useful model for studies on hormonal manipulation of
the endometrium.

DOI: 10.1530/REP-06-0266 
PMID: 17660243  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

