

2375. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2007 Sep 21;361(2):294-300. Epub 2007 Jul 16.

Efficient regulation of viral replication by siRNA in a non-human primate
surrogate model for hepatitis C.

Yokota T(1), Iijima S, Kubodera T, Ishii K, Katakai Y, Ageyama N, Chen Y, Lee YJ,
Unno T, Nishina K, Iwasaki Y, Maki N, Mizusawa H, Akari H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology and Neurological Science, Graduate School, Tokyo
Medical and Dental University, 1-5-45 Yushima, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-8519, Japan. 
tak-yokota.nuro@tmd.ac.jp

RNA interference (RNAi) represents a new technology which could offer potential
applications for the therapeutics of human diseases. RNAi-mediated therapy has
recently been shown to be effective toward infectious diseases in in vitro and
rodent models, however, it remains unclear whether RNAi therapy with systemic
application could be effective in primates. In this study, we examined if RNAi
therapy could be effective toward infectious diseases by using a non-human
primate surrogate model for hepatitis C. Administration into marmosets of
cationic liposome-encapsulated siRNA (CL-siRNA) for GB virus B (GBV-B), which is 
most closely related to hepatitis C virus, repressed GBV-B replication in a
dose-dependent manner. Especially, 5 mg/kg of the CL-siRNA completely inhibited
the viral replication. Since the serum interferons (IFNs) were induced by
CL-siRNA in vivo, inhibition of viral regulation by anti-GBV-B CL-siRNA may
include an antiviral effect of IFN. However, contribution of induced IFN may be
partial, since the control CL-siRNA which induced a stronger IFN response than
GBV-B CL-siRNA could only delay the viral replication. Our results suggest the
feasibility of systemic administration of CL-siRNA as an antiviral strategy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2007.06.182 
PMID: 17655825  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2376. Acta Histochem Cytochem. 2007 Jul 3;40(3):83-92.

Tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)- and aromatic-L-amino acid decarboxylase
(AADC)-immunoreactive neurons of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) brain: 
an immunohistochemical analysis.

Karasawa N(1), Hayashi M, Yamada K, Nagatsu I, Iwasa M, Takeuchi T, Uematsu M,
Watanabe K, Onozuka M.

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Care and Rehabilitation, Seijoh University, Tokai, Aichi 476-8588, 
Japan.

From the perspective of comparative morphology, the distribution of
non-monoaminergic neurons in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) was
investigated using an immunohistochemical method with specific antibodies to
tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and aromatic-L-amino acid decarboxylase
(AADC).TH-immunoreactive (IR) neurons (but not AADC-IR) neurons were observed in 
the olfactory tubercle, preoptic suprachiasmatic nucleus, periventricular
hypothalamic nucleus, arcuate nucleus, paraventricular nucleus, periaqueductal
gray matter, medial longitudinal fasciculus, substantia nigra, and nucleus
solitaris. In contrast, AADC-IR (but not TH-IR), small, oval and spindle-shaped
neurons were sparsely distributed in the following areas: the hypothalamus from
the anterior nucleus to the lateral nucleus, the dorsomedial nucleus, the
dorsomedial area of the medial mammillary nucleus and the arcuate nucleus; the
midbrain, including the stria medullaris and substantia nigra; and the medulla
oblongata, including the dorsal area of the nucleus solitaris and the medullary
reticular nucleus. The distribution of AADC-IR neurons was not as extensive in
the marmoset as it is in rats. However, these neurons were located in the
marmoset, but not the rat substantia nigra. Furthermore, AADC-IR neurons that are
present in the human striatum were absent in that of the marmoset. The present
results indicate that the distribution of non-monoaminergic neurons in the brain 
of the common marmoset is unique and different from that in humans and rodents.

DOI: 10.1267/ahc.06019 
PMCID: PMC1931487
PMID: 17653300 

