

2376. Acta Histochem Cytochem. 2007 Jul 3;40(3):83-92.

Tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)- and aromatic-L-amino acid decarboxylase
(AADC)-immunoreactive neurons of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) brain: 
an immunohistochemical analysis.

Karasawa N(1), Hayashi M, Yamada K, Nagatsu I, Iwasa M, Takeuchi T, Uematsu M,
Watanabe K, Onozuka M.

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Care and Rehabilitation, Seijoh University, Tokai, Aichi 476-8588, 
Japan.

From the perspective of comparative morphology, the distribution of
non-monoaminergic neurons in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) was
investigated using an immunohistochemical method with specific antibodies to
tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and aromatic-L-amino acid decarboxylase
(AADC).TH-immunoreactive (IR) neurons (but not AADC-IR) neurons were observed in 
the olfactory tubercle, preoptic suprachiasmatic nucleus, periventricular
hypothalamic nucleus, arcuate nucleus, paraventricular nucleus, periaqueductal
gray matter, medial longitudinal fasciculus, substantia nigra, and nucleus
solitaris. In contrast, AADC-IR (but not TH-IR), small, oval and spindle-shaped
neurons were sparsely distributed in the following areas: the hypothalamus from
the anterior nucleus to the lateral nucleus, the dorsomedial nucleus, the
dorsomedial area of the medial mammillary nucleus and the arcuate nucleus; the
midbrain, including the stria medullaris and substantia nigra; and the medulla
oblongata, including the dorsal area of the nucleus solitaris and the medullary
reticular nucleus. The distribution of AADC-IR neurons was not as extensive in
the marmoset as it is in rats. However, these neurons were located in the
marmoset, but not the rat substantia nigra. Furthermore, AADC-IR neurons that are
present in the human striatum were absent in that of the marmoset. The present
results indicate that the distribution of non-monoaminergic neurons in the brain 
of the common marmoset is unique and different from that in humans and rodents.

DOI: 10.1267/ahc.06019 
PMCID: PMC1931487
PMID: 17653300 


2377. Biol Reprod. 2007 Nov;77(5):754-64. Epub 2007 Jul 18.

Dynamic regulation of histone H3 methylation at lysine 4 in mammalian
spermatogenesis.

Godmann M(1), Auger V, Ferraroni-Aguiar V, Di Sauro A, Sette C, Behr R, Kimmins
S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Animal Science, McGill University, Montreal, Quebec, Canada H9X 
3V9.

Spermatogenesis is a highly complex cell differentiation process that is governed
by unique transcriptional regulation and massive chromatin alterations, which are
required for meiosis and postmeiotic maturation. The underlying mechanisms
involve alterations to the epigenetic layer, including histone modifications and 
incorporation of testis-specific nuclear proteins, such as histone variants and
protamines. Histones can undergo methylation, acetylation, and phosphorylation
among other modifications at their N-terminus, and these modifications can signal
changes in chromatin structure. We have identified the temporal and spatial
distributions of histone H3 mono-, di-, and trimethylation at lysine 4 (K4), and 
the lysine-specific histone demethylase AOF2 (amine oxidase flavin-containing
domain 2, previously known as LSD1) during mammalian spermatogenesis. Our results
reveal tightly regulated distributions of H3-K4 methylation and AOF2, and that
H3-K4 methylation is very similar between the mouse and the marmoset. The AOF2
protein levels were found to be higher in the testes than in the somatic tissues.
The distribution of AOF2 matched the cell- and stage-specific patterns of H3-K4
methylation. Interaction studies revealed unique epigenetic regulatory complexes 
associated with H3-K4 methylation in the testis, including the association of
AOF2 and methyl-CpG-binding domain protein 2 (MBD2a/b) in a complex with histone 
deacetylase 1 (HDAC1). These studies enhance our understanding of epigenetic
modifications and their roles in chromatin organization during male germ cell
differentiation in both normal and pathologic states.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod.107.062265 
PMID: 17634443  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

