

2380. PLoS One. 2007 Jul 11;2(7):e611.

Imitation as faithful copying of a novel technique in marmoset monkeys.

Voelkl B(1), Huber L.

Author information: 
(1)Department for Neurobiology and Cognition Research, University of Vienna,
Vienna, Austria.

Imitative learning has received great attention due to its supposed role in the
development of culture and the cognitive demands it poses on the individual.
Evidence for imitation in non-human primate species, therefore, could shed light 
on the early origins of proto-cultural traits in the primate order. Imitation has
been defined as the learning of an act by seeing it done or, more specifically,
as the copying of a novel or otherwise improbable act. But despite a century of
research and the detection of mirror neurons the empirical basis for this most
advanced form of observational learning is weak. Few, if any, studies have shown 
that the observer has learned the response topography, i.e., the specific action 
by which the response is made. In an experimental set-up we confronted marmoset
monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) with a conspecific model that was previously trained
to open a plastic box in a peculiar way. Employing detailed motion analyses we
show that the observers precisely copied the movement patterns of the novel
action demonstrated by the model. A discriminant analysis classified 13 out of 14
observer movements (92.86%) as model movements and only one as non-observer
movement. This evidence of imitation in non-human primates questions the dominant
opinion that imitation is a human-specific ability. Furthermore, the high
matching degree suggests that marmosets possess the neuronal mechanism to code
the actions of others and to map them onto their own motor repertoire, rather
than priming existing motor-templates.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0000611 
PMCID: PMC1905941
PMID: 17622356  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2381. Am J Primatol. 2008 Jan;70(1):78-83.

The composition of milk from free-living common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) in
Brazil.

Power ML(1), Verona CE, Ruiz-Miranda C, Oftedal OT.

Author information: 
(1)Nutrition Laboratory, Smithsonian National Zoological Park, Washington, DC
20008, USA. powerm@si.edu

Common marmosets, one of the smallest anthropoid primates, have a relatively high
reproductive rate, capable of producing twins or triplets twice per year. Growth 
and development of infants is relatively rapid, and lactation is relatively short
at less than 3 months. Although mean values for the proximate composition (dry
matter, protein, fat and sugar) of captive common marmoset milks fall within
anthropoid norms, composition is highly variable among individual samples, with
concentrations of milk fat ranging from below 1 to over 10%. To examine the
extent to which this variation might be a consequence of captive conditions, we
collected milk samples from wild common marmosets freely living on a farm in the 
state of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. The proximate composition of the milk samples
was assayed using identical techniques as used for the captive marmoset milks.
The composition of the milk of wild common marmosets was also variable, but
tended to be lower in dry matter, fat, protein and gross energy, and higher in
sugar than milks from captive animals. Interestingly, the percentage of estimated
gross energy from the protein fraction of the milks was relatively constant in
both wild and captive marmosets and did not differ between wild and captive
animals: 1 kcal of common marmoset milk contains on average (+/-SEM) 0.035+/-.001
g of protein regardless of the gross energy content of the milk or whether the
milk was from a wild or captive animal. In contrast, in 1 kcal of low-energy
milks, the amount of sugar was significantly higher and the amount of fat
significantly lower than in 1 kcal of high-energy milks. Thus, common marmoset
milk exhibits axes of variability (especially fat concentration) as well as a
significant stability in the relative amount of protein.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20459 
PMID: 17620291  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

