

2381. Am J Primatol. 2008 Jan;70(1):78-83.

The composition of milk from free-living common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) in
Brazil.

Power ML(1), Verona CE, Ruiz-Miranda C, Oftedal OT.

Author information: 
(1)Nutrition Laboratory, Smithsonian National Zoological Park, Washington, DC
20008, USA. powerm@si.edu

Common marmosets, one of the smallest anthropoid primates, have a relatively high
reproductive rate, capable of producing twins or triplets twice per year. Growth 
and development of infants is relatively rapid, and lactation is relatively short
at less than 3 months. Although mean values for the proximate composition (dry
matter, protein, fat and sugar) of captive common marmoset milks fall within
anthropoid norms, composition is highly variable among individual samples, with
concentrations of milk fat ranging from below 1 to over 10%. To examine the
extent to which this variation might be a consequence of captive conditions, we
collected milk samples from wild common marmosets freely living on a farm in the 
state of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. The proximate composition of the milk samples
was assayed using identical techniques as used for the captive marmoset milks.
The composition of the milk of wild common marmosets was also variable, but
tended to be lower in dry matter, fat, protein and gross energy, and higher in
sugar than milks from captive animals. Interestingly, the percentage of estimated
gross energy from the protein fraction of the milks was relatively constant in
both wild and captive marmosets and did not differ between wild and captive
animals: 1 kcal of common marmoset milk contains on average (+/-SEM) 0.035+/-.001
g of protein regardless of the gross energy content of the milk or whether the
milk was from a wild or captive animal. In contrast, in 1 kcal of low-energy
milks, the amount of sugar was significantly higher and the amount of fat
significantly lower than in 1 kcal of high-energy milks. Thus, common marmoset
milk exhibits axes of variability (especially fat concentration) as well as a
significant stability in the relative amount of protein.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20459 
PMID: 17620291  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2382. Eur J Neurosci. 2007 Jul;26(1):171-7.

Striatal leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 mRNA is increased in
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-lesioned common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus) with L-3, 4-dihydroxyphenylalanine methyl ester-induced
dyskinesia.

Hurley MJ(1), Patel PH, Jackson MJ, Smith LA, Rose S, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Diseases Research Group, Pharmaceutical Sciences Research
Division, School of Biomedical and Health Sciences, King's College, London SE1
1UL, UK. michael.j.hurley@kcl.ac.uk

The level of leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (Lrrk2) mRNA expression was measured by
reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction in anterior striatum from normal 
and 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated common marmosets 
(Callithrix jacchus) that had L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine methyl ester
(L-DOPA)-induced dyskinesia. The level of striatal Lrrk2 mRNA was increased in
MPTP-treated common marmosets that had L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia compared with
normal animals that did not receive l-DOPA. Marmosets that exhibited higher
levels of dyskinesia had the greatest increase in striatal Lrrk2 mRNA. Lrrk2 mRNA
expression was also measured in human striatum and substantia nigra from control 
subjects and patients dying with Parkinson's disease. In contrast to marmoset
tissue, no alteration in Lrrk2 mRNA expression was found in parkinsonian human
brain. However, the brain was from patients who had an overall low level of
dyskinesia. The correlation between striatal Lrrk2 mRNA levels in MPTP-treated
common marmoset striatum and L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia indicates that LRRK2 may
have a role in the molecular alterations that cause L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2007.05638.x 
PMID: 17614947  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

