

2382. Eur J Neurosci. 2007 Jul;26(1):171-7.

Striatal leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 mRNA is increased in
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-lesioned common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus) with L-3, 4-dihydroxyphenylalanine methyl ester-induced
dyskinesia.

Hurley MJ(1), Patel PH, Jackson MJ, Smith LA, Rose S, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Diseases Research Group, Pharmaceutical Sciences Research
Division, School of Biomedical and Health Sciences, King's College, London SE1
1UL, UK. michael.j.hurley@kcl.ac.uk

The level of leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (Lrrk2) mRNA expression was measured by
reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction in anterior striatum from normal 
and 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated common marmosets 
(Callithrix jacchus) that had L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine methyl ester
(L-DOPA)-induced dyskinesia. The level of striatal Lrrk2 mRNA was increased in
MPTP-treated common marmosets that had L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia compared with
normal animals that did not receive l-DOPA. Marmosets that exhibited higher
levels of dyskinesia had the greatest increase in striatal Lrrk2 mRNA. Lrrk2 mRNA
expression was also measured in human striatum and substantia nigra from control 
subjects and patients dying with Parkinson's disease. In contrast to marmoset
tissue, no alteration in Lrrk2 mRNA expression was found in parkinsonian human
brain. However, the brain was from patients who had an overall low level of
dyskinesia. The correlation between striatal Lrrk2 mRNA levels in MPTP-treated
common marmoset striatum and L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia indicates that LRRK2 may
have a role in the molecular alterations that cause L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2007.05638.x 
PMID: 17614947  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2383. Anat Rec (Hoboken). 2007 Aug;290(8):1005-16.

Age-related changes in marmoset trabecular and cortical bone and response to
alendronate therapy resemble human bone physiology and architecture.

Bagi CM(1), Volberg M, Moalli M, Shen V, Olson E, Hanson N, Berryman E, Andresen 
CJ.

Author information: 
(1)Comparative Medicine, PGRD, Pfizer Inc., Groton, Connecticut 06340, USA.
cedo.bagi@pfizer.com

In older humans, bone elongation ceases, periosteal expansion continues, and bone
remodeling remains a dominant metabolic process. An appropriate animal model of
type I and type II osteoporosis would be a species with sealed growth plates and 
persistence of bone remodeling. The rat is commonly used as a primary model, but 
due to delayed epiphyseal closure with continuous modeling and lack of Haversian 
remodeling, Food and Drug Administration guidelines recommend assessment of bone 
quality in an additional, non rodent, remodeling species. This study investigated
the skeletal characteristics of senescent marmosets to evaluate their suitability
as an osteoporosis model. Animals were randomized across three experimental
groups; controls for both sexes and marmosets receiving alendronate for either 30
or 60 days (28 microg/kg, sc, twice per week). Outcome measures included serum
chemistry and bone biomarkers, DEXA, histomorphometry, micro-computed tomography,
and histopathology. Results showed that the adult marmoset skeleton has similar
anatomical characteristics to the adult human, including the absence of growth
plates, presence of Haversian system, and true remodeling of cancellous and
cortical bone. Structural analyses of senescent marmoset cancellous bone
demonstrated loss of trabecular mass and architecture similar to skeletal changes
described for elderly men and women. Treatment with alendronate improved
trabecular volume and number by reducing bone resorption, although bone formation
was also reduced through coupling of bone remodeling. The common marmoset may
provide a valuable model for research paradigms targeting human bone pathology
and osteoporosis due to skeletal features that are similar to age-related changes
and response to bisphosphonate therapy reported for humans.

(c) 2007 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ar.20561 
PMID: 17610276  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

