

2383. Anat Rec (Hoboken). 2007 Aug;290(8):1005-16.

Age-related changes in marmoset trabecular and cortical bone and response to
alendronate therapy resemble human bone physiology and architecture.

Bagi CM(1), Volberg M, Moalli M, Shen V, Olson E, Hanson N, Berryman E, Andresen 
CJ.

Author information: 
(1)Comparative Medicine, PGRD, Pfizer Inc., Groton, Connecticut 06340, USA.
cedo.bagi@pfizer.com

In older humans, bone elongation ceases, periosteal expansion continues, and bone
remodeling remains a dominant metabolic process. An appropriate animal model of
type I and type II osteoporosis would be a species with sealed growth plates and 
persistence of bone remodeling. The rat is commonly used as a primary model, but 
due to delayed epiphyseal closure with continuous modeling and lack of Haversian 
remodeling, Food and Drug Administration guidelines recommend assessment of bone 
quality in an additional, non rodent, remodeling species. This study investigated
the skeletal characteristics of senescent marmosets to evaluate their suitability
as an osteoporosis model. Animals were randomized across three experimental
groups; controls for both sexes and marmosets receiving alendronate for either 30
or 60 days (28 microg/kg, sc, twice per week). Outcome measures included serum
chemistry and bone biomarkers, DEXA, histomorphometry, micro-computed tomography,
and histopathology. Results showed that the adult marmoset skeleton has similar
anatomical characteristics to the adult human, including the absence of growth
plates, presence of Haversian system, and true remodeling of cancellous and
cortical bone. Structural analyses of senescent marmoset cancellous bone
demonstrated loss of trabecular mass and architecture similar to skeletal changes
described for elderly men and women. Treatment with alendronate improved
trabecular volume and number by reducing bone resorption, although bone formation
was also reduced through coupling of bone remodeling. The common marmoset may
provide a valuable model for research paradigms targeting human bone pathology
and osteoporosis due to skeletal features that are similar to age-related changes
and response to bisphosphonate therapy reported for humans.

(c) 2007 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ar.20561 
PMID: 17610276  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2384. Am J Primatol. 2008 Jan;70(1):84-92.

Male parenting and response to infant stimuli in the common marmoset (Callithrix 
jacchus).

Zahed SR(1), Prudom SL, Snowdon CT, Ziegler TE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Zoology and Psychology, University of Wisconsin, Madison,
Wisconsin, USA. skzahed@wisc.edu

Callithrix jacchus infants are raised in complex family environments where most
members participate in rearing the young. Many studies examining male parental
behavior have focused on the carrying of infants with observations made within
the family context. However, interference from family members can make it
difficult to assess the father's motivation to care for infants. Our goals were
to develop a testing paradigm for determining an individual's response to infant 
stimuli separate from family influences, compare a male's motivation to respond
to an infant stimulus outside the family with his paternal behavior within the
family, to compare responses to infant stimuli of parentally experienced versus
inexperienced males and finally to develop a reproducible and standardized method
of testing male responsiveness to infant stimulus that could serve to evaluate
hormonal manipulations. Fifteen experienced common marmoset fathers were
evaluated using three different measures of parental behavior: (1) instantaneous 
scan sampling, (2) continuous focal sampling in the family, and (3) continuous
focal sampling of males presented with four infant stimuli: familiar and
unfamiliar infants, familiar and unfamiliar infant vocalizations. Six parentally 
inexperienced males (non-fathers) served as controls. Males that carried the most
in the family were typically the same males that responded most to the infant
vocalization tests. Experienced fathers did not differ in their latency to enter 
the stimulus cage for any of the four infant stimuli response tests while
inexperienced males took significantly longer to enter the stimulus cage. In
addition, fathers expressed a greater frequency of infant-directed behavior than 
did the inexperienced males during the unfamiliar infant and unfamiliar
vocalization tests. These studies show that experienced male marmosets are highly
motivated to interact with infant stimuli and that there is interindividual
variability in response to infant vocalizations. Testing males outside of the
family allows for a clear assessment of male's interest in infant stimuli in both
parentally experienced fathers and inexperienced males.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20460 
PMID: 17607701  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

