

2384. Am J Primatol. 2008 Jan;70(1):84-92.

Male parenting and response to infant stimuli in the common marmoset (Callithrix 
jacchus).

Zahed SR(1), Prudom SL, Snowdon CT, Ziegler TE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Zoology and Psychology, University of Wisconsin, Madison,
Wisconsin, USA. skzahed@wisc.edu

Callithrix jacchus infants are raised in complex family environments where most
members participate in rearing the young. Many studies examining male parental
behavior have focused on the carrying of infants with observations made within
the family context. However, interference from family members can make it
difficult to assess the father's motivation to care for infants. Our goals were
to develop a testing paradigm for determining an individual's response to infant 
stimuli separate from family influences, compare a male's motivation to respond
to an infant stimulus outside the family with his paternal behavior within the
family, to compare responses to infant stimuli of parentally experienced versus
inexperienced males and finally to develop a reproducible and standardized method
of testing male responsiveness to infant stimulus that could serve to evaluate
hormonal manipulations. Fifteen experienced common marmoset fathers were
evaluated using three different measures of parental behavior: (1) instantaneous 
scan sampling, (2) continuous focal sampling in the family, and (3) continuous
focal sampling of males presented with four infant stimuli: familiar and
unfamiliar infants, familiar and unfamiliar infant vocalizations. Six parentally 
inexperienced males (non-fathers) served as controls. Males that carried the most
in the family were typically the same males that responded most to the infant
vocalization tests. Experienced fathers did not differ in their latency to enter 
the stimulus cage for any of the four infant stimuli response tests while
inexperienced males took significantly longer to enter the stimulus cage. In
addition, fathers expressed a greater frequency of infant-directed behavior than 
did the inexperienced males during the unfamiliar infant and unfamiliar
vocalization tests. These studies show that experienced male marmosets are highly
motivated to interact with infant stimuli and that there is interindividual
variability in response to infant vocalizations. Testing males outside of the
family allows for a clear assessment of male's interest in infant stimuli in both
parentally experienced fathers and inexperienced males.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20460 
PMID: 17607701  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2385. BMC Genomics. 2007 Jun 25;8:190.

Development of the first marmoset-specific DNA microarray (EUMAMA): a new genetic
tool for large-scale expression profiling in a non-human primate.

Datson NA(1), Morsink MC, Atanasova S, Armstrong VW, Zischler H, Schlumbohm C,
Dutilh BE, Huynen MA, Waegele B, Ruepp A, de Kloet ER, Fuchs E.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Medical Pharmacology, Leiden/Amsterdam Center for Drug Research
and Leiden University Medical Center, The Netherlands.
datson_n@lacdr.leidenuniv.nl

BACKGROUND: The common marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus), a small
non-endangered New World primate native to eastern Brazil, is becoming
increasingly used as a non-human primate model in biomedical research, drug
development and safety assessment. In contrast to the growing interest for the
marmoset as an animal model, the molecular tools for genetic analysis are
extremely limited.
RESULTS: Here we report the development of the first marmoset-specific
oligonucleotide microarray (EUMAMA) containing probe sets targeting 1541
different marmoset transcripts expressed in hippocampus. These 1541 transcripts
represent a wide variety of different functional gene classes. Hybridisation of
the marmoset microarray with labelled RNA from hippocampus, cortex and a panel of
7 different peripheral tissues resulted in high detection rates of 85% in the
neuronal tissues and on average 70% in the non-neuronal tissues. The expression
profiles of the 2 neuronal tissues, hippocampus and cortex, were highly similar, 
as indicated by a correlation coefficient of 0.96. Several transcripts with a
tissue-specific pattern of expression were identified. Besides the marmoset
microarray we have generated 3215 ESTs derived from marmoset hippocampus, which
have been annotated and submitted to GenBank [GenBank: EF214838-EF215447,
EH380242-EH382846].
CONCLUSION: We have generated the first marmoset-specific DNA microarray and
demonstrated its use to characterise large-scale gene expression profiles of
hippocampus but also of other neuronal and non-neuronal tissues. In addition, we 
have generated a large collection of ESTs of marmoset origin, which are now
available in the public domain. These new tools will facilitate molecular genetic
research into this non-human primate animal model.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2164-8-190 
PMCID: PMC1929077
PMID: 17592630  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

