

2385. BMC Genomics. 2007 Jun 25;8:190.

Development of the first marmoset-specific DNA microarray (EUMAMA): a new genetic
tool for large-scale expression profiling in a non-human primate.

Datson NA(1), Morsink MC, Atanasova S, Armstrong VW, Zischler H, Schlumbohm C,
Dutilh BE, Huynen MA, Waegele B, Ruepp A, de Kloet ER, Fuchs E.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Medical Pharmacology, Leiden/Amsterdam Center for Drug Research
and Leiden University Medical Center, The Netherlands.
datson_n@lacdr.leidenuniv.nl

BACKGROUND: The common marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus), a small
non-endangered New World primate native to eastern Brazil, is becoming
increasingly used as a non-human primate model in biomedical research, drug
development and safety assessment. In contrast to the growing interest for the
marmoset as an animal model, the molecular tools for genetic analysis are
extremely limited.
RESULTS: Here we report the development of the first marmoset-specific
oligonucleotide microarray (EUMAMA) containing probe sets targeting 1541
different marmoset transcripts expressed in hippocampus. These 1541 transcripts
represent a wide variety of different functional gene classes. Hybridisation of
the marmoset microarray with labelled RNA from hippocampus, cortex and a panel of
7 different peripheral tissues resulted in high detection rates of 85% in the
neuronal tissues and on average 70% in the non-neuronal tissues. The expression
profiles of the 2 neuronal tissues, hippocampus and cortex, were highly similar, 
as indicated by a correlation coefficient of 0.96. Several transcripts with a
tissue-specific pattern of expression were identified. Besides the marmoset
microarray we have generated 3215 ESTs derived from marmoset hippocampus, which
have been annotated and submitted to GenBank [GenBank: EF214838-EF215447,
EH380242-EH382846].
CONCLUSION: We have generated the first marmoset-specific DNA microarray and
demonstrated its use to characterise large-scale gene expression profiles of
hippocampus but also of other neuronal and non-neuronal tissues. In addition, we 
have generated a large collection of ESTs of marmoset origin, which are now
available in the public domain. These new tools will facilitate molecular genetic
research into this non-human primate animal model.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2164-8-190 
PMCID: PMC1929077
PMID: 17592630  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2386. Gene. 2007 Sep 15;399(2):105-11. Epub 2007 May 22.

Phylogenetic conservation of the androgen receptor AR45 variant form in placental
mammals.

Weiss B(1), Faus H, Haendler B.

Author information: 
(1)Target Discovery, Bayer Schering Pharma AG, D-13342 Berlin, Germany.

A cDNA coding for a tissue-specific AR45 variant form of the androgen receptor
(AR) has recently been identified in humans, with highest expression levels found
in heart. The deduced protein comprises the DNA-binding domain, hinge region and 
ligand-binding domain of the AR, but not the N-terminal domain which is replaced 
by a unique, short, seven amino-acid-long stretch. This sequence is encoded by
the mutually exclusive exon 1B, located between exons 1 and 2 of the human AR
gene. As transcript variants of the steroid receptor family have been shown to
have important implications for hormone function, we set out to analyse the
genomes of different organisms for potential AR45 expression. We found exon 1B to
be conserved in the syntenic chromosomal region of non-human primates such as the
chimpanzee Pan troglodytes, the orang-utan Pongo pygmaeus, the macaque Macaca
mulatta and the marmoset Callithrix jacchus, and of the elephant Loxondonta
africana, the pig Sus scrofa and the dog Canis familiaris. Quantification of AR45
transcript levels in heart, skeletal muscle and lung of Macaca fascicularis
showed the heart to be the main organ of expression. A complete AR45 cDNA was
furthermore isolated from the heart of this species. Comparative analysis of the 
identified AR45 exon 1B regions and of the deduced amino acids revealed a high
conservation among species. The four N-terminal residues were identical in all
eight species, whereas a few changes were seen in the other three residues in the
marmoset, elephant and pig. In contrast, we observed more divergence in the mouse
Mus musculus and rat Rattus norvegicus syntenic regions. Here a stop codon was
found downstream of the potential start codon in the putatively deduced protein
sequence and it can be inferred that no protein corresponding to AR45 exists in
these two species. The existence of AR45 in different placental mammals with the 
exception of mouse and rat suggests a disappearance in rodents late in evolution,
before the separation of the mouse and rat lineages, about 16 million years ago. 
In view of the potential function of AR45 as a regulator of AR function, and
considering the multiple roles of androgens in normal physiology and in several
diseases, these findings have important implications with regard to subtle
differences in the action of the male sexual hormone in various organisms.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gene.2007.04.037 
PMID: 17574777  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

