

2387. J Immunol. 2007 Jun 1;178(11):7151-61.

Genomics and diversity of the common marmoset monkey NK complex.

Averdam A(1), Kuhl H, Sontag M, Becker T, Hughes AL, Reinhardt R, Walter L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Primate Genetics, German Primate Center, Göttingen, Germany.

The common marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus) is a New World primate that is
increasingly used in biomedical research as a model organism. Due to the
occurrence of natural bone marrow chimerism, it represents a particularly useful 
primate model in immunological research. In this study, we describe the genomic
organization of the CD94, NKG2, and LY49L genes in the NK complex (NKC) of the
common marmoset based on complete sequencing of a bacterial artificial chromosome
clonal contig. This region of the marmoset NKC is 1.5 times smaller than its
human counterpart, but the genes are colinear and orthologous. One exception is
the activating NKG2CE gene, which is probably an ancestral form of the NKG2C- and
NKG2E-activating receptor genes of humans and great apes. The two completely
sequenced marmoset bacterial artificial chromosome clones are derived from
distinct haplotypes, which differ by 200 sites in the overlapping sequence.
Analyses of NKC genes in nine additional marmoset individuals revealed a moderate
degree of polymorphism of the CD94, NKG2A, NKG2CE, and NKG2D genes. Furthermore, 
expression analyses identified several alternatively spliced transcripts,
particularly of the CD94 gene. Several products of alternative splicing of NKC
genes are highly conserved among primates. Alternative transcriptional start
sites were found, but these probably do not lead to a change of the translational
start site or result in longer or shorter cytoplasmic regions of these type II
membrane receptors.

DOI: 10.4049/jimmunol.178.11.7151 
PMID: 17513764  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2388. J Hepatol. 2007 Sep;47(3):325-37. Epub 2007 Apr 18.

Modulation of MAPK pathways and cell cycle by replicating hepatitis B virus:
factors contributing to hepatocarcinogenesis.

Chin R(1), Earnest-Silveira L, Koeberlein B, Franz S, Zentgraf H, Dong X, Gowans 
E, Bock CT, Torresi J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, CCREID, Royal Melbourne Hospital, University of
Melbourne, Post Office, Parkville, Vic. 3050, Australia. rchin@unimelb.edu.au

BACKGROUND/AIMS: Chronic infection with the hepatitis B virus (HBV) is strongly
associated with the development of hepatocellular carcinoma but the mechanism by 
which this occurs is unknown. Numerous studies have focused on the HBV X protein 
showing that it activates signal transduction pathways while few have
investigated these changes in HBV-replicating hepatocytes.
METHODS: We utilized the recombinant adenovirus system to deliver a replication
competent HBV genome into Huh7 and primary marmoset hepatocytes (PMH) to examine 
the effects of active viral replication on the regulation of Ras-ERK signal
transduction and related pathways.
RESULTS: Huh7 cells and PMHs replicating HBV demonstrated significant
upregulation in phosphorylated ERK, Akt, c-myc together with increased p53,
cyclin B1 and p21(cip1) expression and cell cycle progression to G2 phase in the 
absence of increased cell proliferation. Phosphorylation of the key cell survival
kinase, Akt, was significantly increased, resulting in increased serine
phosphorylation of the downstream target, GSK3-beta.
CONCLUSIONS: These results demonstrated simultaneous activation of the MAP Kinase
and Akt pathways in HBV-replicating hepatocytes that resulted in dysregulation in
the control of cell cycle progression and which help explain the early pathogenic
mechanisms that underlie malignant transformation associated with chronic
hepatitis B infection.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhep.2007.03.025 
PMID: 17512084  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

