

2390. Am J Primatol. 2007 Dec;69(12):1399-411.

Paracellular nutrient absorption in a gum-feeding new world primate, the common
marmoset Callithrix jacchus.

McWhorter TJ(1), Karasov WH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Wildlife Ecology, 226 Russell Labs, University of
Wisconsin-Madison, 1630 Linden Drive, Madison, WI, USA.
T.McWhorter@murdoch.edu.au

The common marmoset is one of the few callitrichid species that is not threatened
or endangered in the wild, and is widely used in biomedical research, yet
relatively little is understood about its digestive physiology. Dietary
specialization on plant exudates has lead to relatively reduced small intestines,
yet the common marmoset has exceptional dietary breadth, allowing it to
successfully utilize a variety of habitats. We predicted that passive,
paracellular nutrient absorption would be used by the common marmoset to a
greater extent than in other non-flying mammals. We measured the bioavailability 
and rates of absorption of two metabolically inert carbohydrates not transported 
by mediated pathways (L-rhamnose and cellobiose, molecular masses of 164 and 342,
respectively) to measure paracellular uptake, and of a non-metabolized D-glucose 
analog (3-O-methyl-D-glucose) to measure total uptake by both mediated and
paracellular pathways. We found high bioavailability of 3-O-methyl-D-glucose
(83+/-5%), and much higher bioavailability of the paracellular probes than in
similarly sized non-flying mammals (30+/-3% and 19+/-2% for L-rhamnose and
cellobiose, respectively). Passive, paracellular nutrient absorption accounts for
around 30% of total glucose absorption in common marmosets and intestinal
permeability is significantly higher than in humans, the only other species of
primate measured to date. This may allow the common marmoset to maintain high
digestive efficiency when feeding on higher quality foods (fruit, arthropods,
gums with higher proportions of simple sugars), in spite of relatively reduced
small intestines correlated with adaptations for fermentative digestion of plant 
gums. We find no evidence to support, in primates, the hypothesis that reliance
on paracellular nutrient absorption should increase with body size in mammals,
but suggest instead that it may be associated with small body size and/or
taxon-specific adaptations to diet.

(c) 2007 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20443 
PMID: 17487879  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2391. Neuroreport. 2007 May 28;18(8):741-5.

Central nervous system expression of the exon 9 skipping form of the glutamate
transporter GLAST.

Macnab LT(1), Pow DV.

Author information: 
(1)School of Biomedical Sciences, University of Newcastle, and HMRI, NSW,
Australia.

We have raised antibodies that selectively recognize an exon 9 skipping form of
GLAST. We demonstrate expression of this protein in brains of rats, cats, monkeys
and humans. Immunolabelling was present in scattered populations of neurons,
particularly in cerebral cortex and colliculi. Neurons were often present in
small clusters and exhibited a range of morphologies, from apparently normal to
highly degenerate. GLAST1b was also expressed by some glial cells. Cortical
neurons expressing the exon 9 skipping form of GLAST also labelled with
antibodies against the C- or N-terminal regions of GLAST. We suggest that
alternate splicing of GLAST by subpopulations of neurons may indicate some
dysfunction in these cells, and may be an indicator of inappropriate local
excitation.

DOI: 10.1097/WNR.0b013e3280c143b0 
PMID: 17471058  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

