

2397. Eur J Neurosci. 2007 Mar;25(6):1780-92.

Spatial and temporal frequency selectivity of neurons in the middle temporal
visual area of new world monkeys (Callithrix jacchus).

Lui LL(1), Bourne JA, Rosa MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Clayton, VIC, Australia.

Information about the responses of neurons to the spatial and temporal
frequencies of visual stimuli is important for understanding the types of
computations being performed in different visual areas. We characterized the
spatiotemporal selectivity of neurons in the middle temporal area (MT), which is 
deemed central for the processing of direction and speed of motion. Recordings
obtained in marmoset monkeys using high-contrast sine-wave gratings as stimuli
revealed that the majority of neurons had bandpass spatial and temporal frequency
tuning, and that the selectivity for these parameters was largely separable. Only
in about one-third of the cells was inseparable spatiotemporal tuning detected,
this typically being in the form of an increase in the optimal temporal frequency
as a function of increasing grating spatial frequency. However, most of these
interactions were weak, and only 10% of neurons showed spatial
frequency-invariant representation of speed. Cells with inseparable
spatiotemporal tuning were most commonly found in the infragranular layers,
raising the possibility that they form part of the feedback from MT to caudal
visual areas. While spatial frequency tuning curves were approximately
scale-invariant on a logarithmic scale, temporal frequency tuning curves covering
different portions of the spectrum showed marked and systematic changes. Thus, MT
neurons can be reasonably described as similarly built spatial frequency filters,
each covering a different dynamic range. The small proportion of speed-tuned
neurons, together with the laminar position of these units, are compatible with
the idea that an explicit neural representation of speed emerges from
computations performed in MT.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2007.05453.x 
PMID: 17432965  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2398. Eur J Neurosci. 2007 Mar;25(6):1767-79.

Development of non-phosphorylated neurofilament protein expression in neurones of
the New World monkey dorsolateral frontal cortex.

Burman KJ(1), Lui LL, Rosa MG, Bourne JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Monash University Centre for Brain and Behaviour,
Monash University, Victoria, Australia.

We studied developmental changes in the expression of non-phosphorylated
neurofilament protein (NNF) (a marker of the structural maturation of pyramidal
neurones) in the dorsolateral frontal cortex of marmoset monkeys, between
embryonic day 130 and adulthood. Our focus was on cortical fields that send
strong projections to extrastriate cortex, including the dorsal and ventral
subdivisions of area 8A, area 46 and area 6d. For comparison, we also
investigated the maturation of prefrontal area 9, which has few or no connections
with visual areas. The timing of expression of NNF immunostaining in early life
can be described as the result of the interaction of two developmental gradients.
First, there is an anteroposterior gradient of maturation in the frontal lobe,
whereby neurones in caudal areas express NNF earlier than those in rostral areas.
Second, there is a laminar gradient, whereby the first NNF-immunoreactive
neurones emerge in layer V, followed by those in progressively more superficial
parts of layer III. Following a peak in density of NNF-immunopositive cell
numbers in layer V at 2-3 months of age, there is a gradual decline towards
adulthood. In contrast, the density of immunopositive cells in layer III
continues to increase throughout the first postnatal year in area 6d and until
late adolescence (> 1.5 years of age) in prefrontal areas. The present results
support the view that the maturation of visual cognitive functions involves
relatively late processes linked to structural changes in frontal cortical areas.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2007.05442.x 
PMID: 17432964  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

