

2400. Environ Health Perspect. 2007 Mar;115(3):390-6. Epub 2006 Dec 19.

Effects of monobutyl and di(n-butyl) phthalate in vitro on steroidogenesis and
Leydig cell aggregation in fetal testis explants from the rat: comparison with
effects in vivo in the fetal rat and neonatal marmoset and in vitro in the human.

Hallmark N(1), Walker M, McKinnell C, Mahood IK, Scott H, Bayne R, Coutts S,
Anderson RA, Greig I, Morris K, Sharpe RM.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Human Reproductive Sciences Unit, Centre for Reproductive Biology, Queen's
Medical Research Institute, Edinburgh, United Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: Certain phthalates can impair Leydig cell distribution and
steroidogenesis in the fetal rat in utero, but it is unknown whether similar
effects might occur in the human.
OBJECTIVES: Our aim in this study was to investigate the effects of di(n-butyl)
phthalate (DBP), or its metabolite monobutyl phthalate (MBP), on testosterone
production and Leydig cell aggregation (LCA) in fetal testis explants from the
rat and human, and to compare the results with in vivo findings for DBP-exposed
rats. We also wanted to determine if DBP/MBP affects testosterone production in
vivo in the neonatal male marmoset.
METHODS: Fetal testis explants obtained from the rat [gestation day (GD)19.5] and
from the human (15-19 weeks of gestation) were cultured for 24-48 hr with or
without human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) or 22R-hydroxycholesterol (22R-OH),
and with or without DBP/MBP. Pregnant rats and neonatal male marmosets were dosed
with 500 mg/kg/day DBP or MBP.
RESULTS: Exposure of rats in utero to DBP (500 mg/kg/day) for 48 hr before GD21.5
induced major suppression of intratesticular testosterone levels and cytochrome
P450 side chain cleavage enzyme (P450scc) expression; this short-term treatment
induced LCA, but was less marked than longer term (GD13.5-20.5) DBP treatment. In
vitro, MBP (10(-3) M) did not affect basal or 22R-OH-stimulated testosterone
production by fetal rat testis explants but slightly attenuated hCG-stimulated
steroidogenesis; MBP induced minor LCA in vitro. None of these parameters were
affected in human fetal testis explants cultured with 10(-3) M MBP for up to 48
hr. Because the in vivo effects of DBP/MBP were not reproduced in vitro in the
rat, the absence of MBP effects in vitro on fetal human testes is inconclusive.
In newborn (Day 2-7) marmosets, administration of a single dose of 500 mg/kg MBP 
significantly (p = 0.019) suppressed blood testosterone levels 5 hr later.
Similar treatment of newborn co-twin male marmosets for 14 days resulted in
increased Leydig cell volume per testis (p = 0.011), compared with co-twin
controls; this is consistent with MBP-induced inhibition of steroidogenesis
followed by compensatory Leydig cell hyperplasia/hypertrophy.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggest that MBP/DBP suppresses steroidogenesis by
fetal-type Leydig cells in primates as in rodents, but this cannot be studied in 
vitro.

DOI: 10.1289/ehp.9490 
PMCID: PMC1849934
PMID: 17431488  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2401. J Neuroendocrinol. 2007 May;19(5):354-63.

Gonadotrophin-releasing hormone (GnRH) release in marmosets II: pulsatile release
of GnRH and pituitary gonadotrophin in adult females.

Tannenbaum PL(1), Schultz-Darken NJ, Woller MJ, Abbott DH.

Author information: 
(1)Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin-Madison,
Madison, WI, USA.

Unlike other mammals, including rodents, Old World primates and humans, common
marmosets and probably all other New World primates synthesise and release
chorionic gonadotrophin (CG), and not luteinising hormone (LH) from pituitary
gonadotrophs. However, little is known about the physiological dynamics of
gonadotrophin-releasing hormone (GnRH)-regulated CG release from gonadotrophs and
whether such CG release has pulsatile release characteristics similar to those of
LH in other mammalian species. Consequently, we performed a series of in vivo and
in vitro studies in ovariectomised laboratory rats and female marmosets to
compare GnRH-induced pituitary LH and CG release characteristics, respectively.
Exogenous GnRH stimulated a slower onset of release of marmoset pituitary CG,
both in vivo and in vitro, and induced an approximately 400% greater increase in 
the duration of marmoset pituitary CG release compared to that for rat LH. Not
surprisingly, hypothalamic pulsatile release of GnRH in vivo was not obviously
concordant with endogenous episodic changes in circulating levels of CG in
marmosets, in contrast to the clear concordance observed between in vivo GnRH and
LH release previously demonstrated in rats and other mammals. Pituitary CG
release in marmosets thus demonstrates considerable divergence from the timely
hypothalamic GnRH-regulated LH release in other female mammals, implying
potentially different physiological dynamics in gonadotrophin regulation of
marmoset ovarian function.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2826.2007.01535.x 
PMID: 17425610  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

