

2401. J Neuroendocrinol. 2007 May;19(5):354-63.

Gonadotrophin-releasing hormone (GnRH) release in marmosets II: pulsatile release
of GnRH and pituitary gonadotrophin in adult females.

Tannenbaum PL(1), Schultz-Darken NJ, Woller MJ, Abbott DH.

Author information: 
(1)Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin-Madison,
Madison, WI, USA.

Unlike other mammals, including rodents, Old World primates and humans, common
marmosets and probably all other New World primates synthesise and release
chorionic gonadotrophin (CG), and not luteinising hormone (LH) from pituitary
gonadotrophs. However, little is known about the physiological dynamics of
gonadotrophin-releasing hormone (GnRH)-regulated CG release from gonadotrophs and
whether such CG release has pulsatile release characteristics similar to those of
LH in other mammalian species. Consequently, we performed a series of in vivo and
in vitro studies in ovariectomised laboratory rats and female marmosets to
compare GnRH-induced pituitary LH and CG release characteristics, respectively.
Exogenous GnRH stimulated a slower onset of release of marmoset pituitary CG,
both in vivo and in vitro, and induced an approximately 400% greater increase in 
the duration of marmoset pituitary CG release compared to that for rat LH. Not
surprisingly, hypothalamic pulsatile release of GnRH in vivo was not obviously
concordant with endogenous episodic changes in circulating levels of CG in
marmosets, in contrast to the clear concordance observed between in vivo GnRH and
LH release previously demonstrated in rats and other mammals. Pituitary CG
release in marmosets thus demonstrates considerable divergence from the timely
hypothalamic GnRH-regulated LH release in other female mammals, implying
potentially different physiological dynamics in gonadotrophin regulation of
marmoset ovarian function.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2826.2007.01535.x 
PMID: 17425610  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2402. J Neuroendocrinol. 2007 May;19(5):342-53.

Gonadotrophin-releasing hormone (GnRH) release in marmosets I: in vivo
measurement in ovary-intact and ovariectomised females.

Tannenbaum PL(1), Schultz-Darken NJ, Saltzman W, Terasawa E, Woller MJ, Abbott
DH.

Author information: 
(1)Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin-Madison,
Madison, WI, USA.

In vivo hypothalamic gonadotrophin-releasing hormone (GnRH) release was
characterised for the first time in a New World primate. A nonterminal and
repeatable push-pull perfusion (PPP) technique reliably measured GnRH in
conscious common marmoset monkeys. Nineteen adult females (n = 8 ovary-intact in 
the mid-follicular phase; n = 11 ovariectomised) were fitted with long-term
cranial pedestals, and a push-pull cannula was temporarily placed in unique
locations within the pituitary stalk-median eminence (S-ME) 2 days prior to each 
PPP session. Marmosets underwent 1-3 PPPs (32 PPPs in total) lasting up to 12 h. 
Plasma cortisol levels were not elevated in these habituated marmosets during
PPP, and PPP did not disrupt ovulatory cyclicity or subsequent fertility in
ovary-intact females. GnRH displayed an organised pattern of release, with pulses
occurring every 50.0 +/- 2.6 min and lasting 25.4 +/- 1.3 min. GnRH pulse
frequency was consistent within individual marmosets across multiple PPPs. GnRH
mean concentration, baseline concentration and pulse amplitude varied predictably
with anatomical location of the cannula tip within the S-ME. GnRH release
increased characteristically in response to a norepinephrine infusion and
decreased abruptly during the evening transition to lights off. Ovary-intact
(mid-follicular phase) and ovariectomised marmosets did not differ significantly 
on any parameter of GnRH release. Overall, these results indicate that PPP can be
used to reliably assess in vivo GnRH release in marmosets and will be a useful
tool for future studies of reproductive neuroendocrinology in this small primate.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2826.2007.01534.x 
PMID: 17425609  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

