

2407. Pharmacol Biochem Behav. 2007 Apr;86(4):705-11. Epub 2007 Feb 22.

Persistent anxiety-like behavior in marmosets following a recent predatory stress
condition: reversal by diazepam.

Barros M(1), Giorgetti M, Souto AA, Vilela G, Santos K, Boas NV, Tomaz C.

Author information: 
(1)Primate Center and Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, School of Health
Sciences, University of Brasilia, CEP 70910-900 Brasilia, DF, Brazil.
mbarros@unb.br

Initial investigations indicated the use of the Marmoset Predator Confrontation
Test (MPCT) as an experimental procedure to measure fear/anxiety-related
behaviors in non-human primates. However, possible long-term habituation effects 
and re-use of experimental subjects need to be verified. This study, therefore,
compared the behavioral response of experienced versus naïve adult black
tufted-ear marmosets (Callithrix penicillata) in the MPCT, with/without diazepam 
administrations. Subjects were tested in the figure-8 maze and confronted with a 
taxidermized wild-cat predator stimulus. After four initial 20-min maze
habituation sessions, each subject was submitted to two randomly-assigned 20-min 
predator confrontation sessions: vehicle and 2 mg/kg of diazepam. Confrontation
with the predator induced significant behavioral changes; i.e., proximic
avoidance and tsik-tsik alarm call. Diazepam administration, concomitant to
predator exposure, reversed the behavioral changes observed. In both the
experienced and naïve marmosets a similar behavioral profile and response pattern
to diazepam was detected, corroborating the important selective pressure that
felines seem to have on marmoset behavioral ecology. Therefore, during a more
naturalistic-like regimen--i.e., recurring intermittent predator encounters--the 
general response pattern remains highly consistent, regardless of prior
experience. One may consider the re-use of marmoset subjects in the MPCT,
particularly under these specific conditions (i.e. repeated 20-min
confrontations, 72-h apart).

DOI: 10.1016/j.pbb.2007.02.016 
PMID: 17391742  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2408. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2007 Apr 10;104(15):6278-82. Epub 2007 Mar 26.

Germ-line chimerism and paternal care in marmosets (Callithrix kuhlii).

Ross CN(1), French JA, Ortí G.

Author information: 
(1)School of Biological Sciences, University of Nebraska, Lincoln, NE 68588, USA.
rossc4@uthscsa.edu

The formation of viable genetic chimeras in mammals through the transfer of cells
between siblings in utero is rare. Using microsatellite DNA markers, we show here
that chimerism in marmoset (Callithrix kuhlii) twins is not limited to
blood-derived hematopoietic tissues as was previously described. All somatic
tissue types sampled were found to be chimeric. Notably, chimerism was
demonstrated to be present in germ-line tissues, an event never before documented
as naturally occurring in a primate. In fact, we found that chimeric marmosets
often transmit sibling alleles acquired in utero to their own offspring. Thus, an
individual that contributes gametes to an offspring is not necessarily the
genetic parent of that offspring. The presence of somatic and germ-line chimerism
may have influenced the evolution of the extensive paternal and alloparental care
system of this taxon. Although the exact mechanisms of sociobiological change
associated with chimerism have not been fully explored, we show here that
chimerism alters relatedness between twins and may alter the perceived
relatedness between family members, thus influencing the allocation of parental
care. Consistent with this prediction, we found a significant correlation between
paternal care effort and the presence of epithelial chimerism, with males
carrying chimeric infants more often than nonchimeric infants. Therefore, we
propose that the presence of placental chorionic fusion and the exchange of cell 
lines between embryos may represent a unique adaptation affecting the evolution
of cooperative care in this group of primates.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.0607426104 
PMCID: PMC1851065
PMID: 17389380  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

