

2408. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2007 Apr 10;104(15):6278-82. Epub 2007 Mar 26.

Germ-line chimerism and paternal care in marmosets (Callithrix kuhlii).

Ross CN(1), French JA, Ortí G.

Author information: 
(1)School of Biological Sciences, University of Nebraska, Lincoln, NE 68588, USA.
rossc4@uthscsa.edu

The formation of viable genetic chimeras in mammals through the transfer of cells
between siblings in utero is rare. Using microsatellite DNA markers, we show here
that chimerism in marmoset (Callithrix kuhlii) twins is not limited to
blood-derived hematopoietic tissues as was previously described. All somatic
tissue types sampled were found to be chimeric. Notably, chimerism was
demonstrated to be present in germ-line tissues, an event never before documented
as naturally occurring in a primate. In fact, we found that chimeric marmosets
often transmit sibling alleles acquired in utero to their own offspring. Thus, an
individual that contributes gametes to an offspring is not necessarily the
genetic parent of that offspring. The presence of somatic and germ-line chimerism
may have influenced the evolution of the extensive paternal and alloparental care
system of this taxon. Although the exact mechanisms of sociobiological change
associated with chimerism have not been fully explored, we show here that
chimerism alters relatedness between twins and may alter the perceived
relatedness between family members, thus influencing the allocation of parental
care. Consistent with this prediction, we found a significant correlation between
paternal care effort and the presence of epithelial chimerism, with males
carrying chimeric infants more often than nonchimeric infants. Therefore, we
propose that the presence of placental chorionic fusion and the exchange of cell 
lines between embryos may represent a unique adaptation affecting the evolution
of cooperative care in this group of primates.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.0607426104 
PMCID: PMC1851065
PMID: 17389380  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2409. Am J Primatol. 2007 Nov;69(11):1210-22.

Response to novel food and the role of social influences in common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus) and Goeldi's monkeys (Callimico goeldii).

Addessi E(1), Chiarotti F, Visalberghi E, Anzenberger G.

Author information: 
(1)Anthropological Institute and Museum, University of Zürich, Switzerland.
elsa.addessi@istc.cnr.it

Neophobia, defined as showing caution toward novel features of the environment,
is widespread in birds and mammals; it can be affected by ecology, early
experience, and social context. In this study, we aimed to (i) investigate the
response to novel food in adult common marmosets and Goeldi's monkeys and (ii)
assess the role of social influences. We used an experimental paradigm employed
previously with capuchin monkeys and children, in which a subject (observer) was 
presented with a novel food under three conditions: (i) Presence: group members
did not have food; (ii) Different color: group members received familiar food
whose color differed from that of the observer's novel food; (iii) Same color:
group members received familiar food of the same color as the observer's novel
food. Although most common marmosets tasted and/or ate the novel food, none of
the Goeldi's monkeys ate it and only two sampled it. Differences in home range
size and early social experience might explain the divergent behavior of the two 
species. Observers of both species similarly attended to group members and their 
visual attention increased with the number of group members eating, especially
when the observer's and group members' foods were perceptually similar. However, 
we observed social influences on explorative behavior in Goeldi's monkeys but not
on explorative or eating behavior in common marmosets. This result might be
explained by the different pattern of response to novel food observed in the two 
species. Moreover, social influences on Goeldi's monkeys' behavior were
nonspecific, i.e. they were not based on an appreciation that the food is safe
because eaten by group members.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20429 
PMID: 17387731  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

