

2410. Antiviral Res. 2007 May;74(2):102-10. Epub 2006 Sep 25.

Inhibition of Epstein Barr Virus LMP1 gene expression in B lymphocytes by
antisense oligonucleotides: uptake and efficacy of lipid-based and
receptor-mediated delivery systems.

Galletti R(1), Masciarelli S, Conti C, Matusali G, Di Renzo L, Meschini S,
Arancia G, Mancini C, Mattia E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Public Health Sciences, University "La Sapienza", P. le A. Moro 
5, 00185 Rome, Italy.

Epstein Barr Virus (EBV), is associated with an increasing number of lymphoid and
epithelial malignancies. Among the genes expressed by EBV during latency, LMP1
plays a key role for growth transformation and immortalization of B lymphocytes. 
We have previously shown that antisense oligonucleotides (ONs) directed to LMP1
mRNA, effectively suppressed LMP1 gene expression and substantially reduced
proliferation of the infected cells. The use of antisense phosphodiester
oligonucleotides as therapeutic agents is limited by inefficient cellular uptake 
and intracellular transport to the target mRNA. We tested the ability of three
cationic carriers internalized by different pathways, to increase the delivery of
anti-LMP1-ON to their site of action in EBV-infected B lymphocytes. We report
here that liposomes, dendrimers or transferrin-polylysine-conjugated ON were
internalized by the cells at an extent several fold higher than that of the naked
oligomers. However, only the delivery system exploiting the transferrin receptor 
pathway of internalization, was able to vectorize biologically active antisense
LMP1-ON.

DOI: 10.1016/j.antiviral.2006.09.001 
PMID: 17382835  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2411. Brain Res. 2007 May 29;1149:101-10. Epub 2007 Feb 28.

A comparative study of cytoarchitecture and serotonergic afferents in the
suprachiasmatic nucleus of primates (Cebus apella and Callithrix jacchus) and
rats (Wistar and Long Evans strains).

Pinato L(1), Allemandi W, Abe LK, Frazão R, Cruz-Rizzolo RJ, Cavalcante JS, Costa
MS, Nogueira MI.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Neurosciences, Department of Anatomy, Institute of Biomedical
Sciences, University of São Paulo, 05508-900 São Paulo, SP, Brazil.

The suprachiasmatic nucleus, an essential diencephalic component of the circadian
timing system, plays a role in the generation and modulation of behavioral and
neuroendocrine rhythms in mammals. Its cytoarchitecture, neurochemical and
hodological characteristics have been investigated in various mammalian species, 
particularly in rodents. In most species, two subdivisions, based on these
aspects and considered to reflect functional specialization within the nucleus,
can be recognized. Many studies reveal a typical dense innervation by
serotonergic fibers in this nucleus, mainly in the ventromedial area, overlapping
the retinal afferents. However, a different pattern occurs in certain animals,
which lead us to investigate the distribution of serotonergic afferents in the
suprachiasmatic nucleus of the Capuchin monkey, Cebus apella, compared to the
marmoset, Callithrix jacchus, and two Rattus norvegicus lines (Long Evans and
Wistar), and to reported findings for other mammalian species. Our morphometric
data show the volume and length of the suprachiasmatic nucleus along the
rostrocaudal axis to be greatest in C. apella>C. jacchus>Long Evans> or =Wistar
rats, in agreement with their body sizes. In C. apella, however, the serotonergic
terminals occupy only some 10% of the nucleus' area, less than the 25% seen in
the marmoset and rats. The distribution of the serotonergic fibers in C. apella
does not follow the characteristic ventral organization pattern seen in the
rodents. These findings raise questions concerning the intrinsic organization of 
the nucleus, as well as regarding the functional relationship between
serotonergic input and retinal afferents in this diurnal species.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brainres.2007.02.048 
PMID: 17382302  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

