

2414. J Comp Neurol. 2007 May 20;502(3):442-54.

OFF midget bipolar cells in the retina of the marmoset, Callithrix jacchus,
express AMPA receptors.

Puller C(1), Haverkamp S, Grünert U.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroanatomy, Max-Planck-Institute for Brain Research, D-60528
Frankfurt/Main, Germany.

Recent studies suggested that different types of OFF bipolar cells express
specific types of ionotropic (AMPA or kainate) glutamate receptors (GluRs) at
their contacts with cone pedicles. However, the question of which GluR type is
expressed by which type of OFF bipolar cell in primate retina is still open. In
this study, the expression of AMPA and kainate receptor subunits at the dendritic
tips of flat (OFF) midget bipolar (FMB) cells was analyzed in the retina of the
common marmoset, Callithrix jacchus. We used preembedding electron microscopy and
double immunofluorescence with subunit-specific antibodies. The FMB cells were
labeled with antibodies against the carbohydrate epitope CD15. Cone pedicles were
identified with peanut agglutinin. Immunoreactivity for the GluR1 subunit and for
CD15 is preferentially located at triad-associated flat contacts. Furthermore,
the large majority of GluR1 immunoreactive puncta is localized at the dendritic
tips of FMB cells. These results suggest that FMB cells express the AMPA receptor
subunit GluR1. In contrast, the kainate receptor subunit GluR5 is not colocalized
with the dendritic tips of FMB cells or with the GluR1 subunit. Immunoreactive
puncta for the GluR1 subunit are found at all M/L-cone pedicles but are only
rarely associated with S-cone pedicles. This is consistent with our recent
findings in marmoset retina that FMB cells do not contact S-cone pedicles. The
presence of GluR5 clusters at S-cone pedicles indicates that in primate retinas
OFF bipolar cells expressing kainate receptor subunits receive some S-cone input.

(c) 2007 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.21315 
PMID: 17366611  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2415. Psychoneuroendocrinology. 2007 May;32(4):331-49. Epub 2007 Mar 23.

Behavioral and physiological effects of an infant-neglect manipulation in a
bi-parental, twinning primate: impact is dependent on familial factors.

Dettling AC(1), Schnell CR, Maier C, Feldon J, Pryce CR.

Author information: 
(1)Behavioural Neurobiology Laboratory, Swiss Federal Institute of Technology
Zürich, Schorenstrasse 16, CH-8603 Schwerzenbach, Switzerland.

Experimental animal studies and epidemiological and clinical human studies
demonstrate that atypical infant-caregiving can exert short- and long-term
effects on offspring phenotype, including increased long-term risk of affective
disorders. Whilst the early environment is therefore a major determinant of
behavioral, physiological and neurobiological phenotypes, the effects of early
adversity exhibit individual variation, presumably due to differences in
environment-genotype interactions. Twin studies provide a powerful model with
which to study such interactions. However, human twin studies rarely include
analysis of genotype-environment interactions or of individuals exposed to
extreme environments, and rat studies have rarely attempted to utilize
littermates (i.e. dizygotic twins) to investigate environment-genotype
interactions. Here, we report on the effects of repeated deprivation of
caregiving in the common marmoset, a primate that exhibits dizygotic twinning and
bi-parental care. Breeding pairs each contributed early deprived (ED) twins and
control (CON) twins, thereby allowing for the study of effects of ED, parentage
and ED-parentage interaction. Significant ED x parentage interaction effects were
obtained for basal urinary, plasma and cerebrospinal-fluid cortisol titers
(infancy-adolescence), and basal levels of social and maintenance behaviors
(juveniles); basal urinary cortisol titers during a 2-week period of repeated
psychosocial challenge (juveniles), and social and exploratory behavior during
psychosocial challenge (juveniles). Significant main effects of ED were obtained 
for: basal levels of time spent in contact with parents (ED>CON; juveniles) and
in locomotor activity (ED<CON; adolescents); basal and
psychosocial-stress-related systolic blood pressure (ED>CON; juveniles); time
spent in locomotor activity (ED<CON), contact calling (ED<CON) and exploring
novelty (ED>CON) during psychosocial challenge (juveniles). This study provides
evidence for long-term effects of early environment on bio-behavioral traits and 
states in marmosets specifically, and the importance of including parental
factors in developmental studies in mammals generally.

DOI: 10.1016/j.psyneuen.2007.01.005 
PMID: 17363175  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

