

2426. Endocrinology. 2007 May;148(5):2273-81. Epub 2007 Feb 22.

Expression of anti-Mullerian hormone protein during early follicular development 
in the primate ovary in vivo is influenced by suppression of gonadotropin
secretion and inhibition of vascular endothelial growth factor.

Thomas FH(1), Telfer EE, Fraser HM.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council Human Reproductive Sciences Unit, University of
Edinburgh Centre for Reproductive Biology, The Queen's Medical Research
Institute, 47 Little France Crescent, Edinburgh, EH16 4TJ, UK.
f.thomas@hrsu.mrc.ac.uk

Anti-Mullerian hormone (AMH) plays a role during early follicular development and
selection. The aim of this study was to determine the pattern of AMH protein
expression in the marmoset ovary and to investigate the effects of inhibition of 
gonadotropins or vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) activity on AMH
expression in vivo. GnRH antagonist or VEGF Trap, a soluble decoy receptor, was
administered on d 0 or 5 of the follicular phase of the cycle, and ovaries were
collected at the end of the follicular phase (d 10). AMH protein was expressed in
the marmoset ovary in granulosa cells from the primary stage, with the most
abundant staining at the preantral and early antral stages. Inhibition of
gonadotropin secretion or VEGF activity between d 0-10 of the cycle decreased AMH
expression in early preantral follicles (P < 0.01), and AMH expression was
decreased in late preantral follicles in the presence of the VEGF Trap (P <
0.01), compared with controls. There was significantly less AMH expression in
early antral follicles with both treatments (P < 0.01), and a decrease in the
ratio of oocyte-associated/basement-membrane-associated granulosa cell expression
of AMH (P < 0.05). When treatments were administered from d 5-10 of the cycle,
both VEGF Trap and GnRH antagonist decreased AMH expression in preantral
follicles (P < 0.01) but had no significant effect on early antral follicles. In 
conclusion, VEGF and gonadotropins are involved in the regulation of expression
of AMH in the marmoset. This AMH expression may be a marker of abnormal
folliculogenesis in the absence of gonadotropin stimulation or functional
angiogenesis.

DOI: 10.1210/en.2006-1501 
PMID: 17317775  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2427. J Zoo Wildl Med. 2006 Mar;37(1):44-8.

Cholelithiasis in four callitrichid species (Leontopithecus, Callithrix).

Smith KM(1), Calle P, Raphael BL, James S, Moore R, McAloose D, Baitchman E.

Author information: 
(1)Wildlife Conservation Society, Wildlife Health Sciences, 2300 Southern
Boulevard, Bronx, New York 10460, USA.

Medical records of three male and three female callitrichids of four species
(Leontopithecus chrysopygus, Leontopithecus rosalia, Callithrix argentata
argentata, Callithrix kuhlii) diagnosed with cholelithiasis were reviewed. Ages
of affected animals at the time of diagnosis ranged from 2-14 yr. Definitive
antemortem diagnosis of cholelithiasis was made in four of the six cases. Chronic
weight loss, lethargy, and weakness were seen in all cases. Chronic intermittent 
diarrhea was seen in three cases. Icterus and abnormal gait were each present in 
two of the animals. Hematologic and serum biochemical abnormalities included
leukocytosis in five cases, elevated bilirubin (direct and indirect) in four
cases, and anemia in four cases. Radiographic evidence of choleliths was observed
in three cases. Surgical removal of choleliths was successfully performed on two 
animals. Full necropsies were performed on all cases, and choleliths were
believed to contribute to morbidity in all cases. However, inflammatory bowel
disease was determined to be the primary cause of weight loss and mortality in at
least three animals. All choleliths analyzed were pigment stones, two being
primarily composed of cystine.

DOI: 10.1638/05-032.1 
PMID: 17312811  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

