

2430. J Electron Microsc (Tokyo). 2006 Dec;55(6):301-4. Epub 2007 Feb 15.

The sensory region of muscle spindles in the posterior cricoarytenoid muscle of
the marmoset.

Desaki J, Nishida N.

Erratum in
    J Electron Microsc (Tokyo). 2007 Dec;56(6):257-8.

We examined muscle spindles in the posterior cricoarytenoid (PCA) muscle of the
marmoset. The spindle capsule contained only one intrafusal muscle fiber which
did not form a typical aggregation of equatorial nuclei such as bags and chains. 
The intrafusal fiber was innervated by sensory endings which branched and
arranged irregularly. These sensory endings lay on the surface of the fiber in
shallow grooves or deeply penetrated into it. These findings suggest that the
muscle spindles in the marmoset PCA muscle are strikingly different in the
structure of intrafusal fibers in the arrangement of sensory endings from those
in common mammalian skeletal muscles.

DOI: 10.1093/jmicro/dfl040 
PMID: 17303620  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2431. Brain. 2007 Mar;130(Pt 3):799-815. Epub 2007 Feb 15.

Long-term consequences of human alpha-synuclein overexpression in the primate
ventral midbrain.

Eslamboli A(1), Romero-Ramos M, Burger C, Bjorklund T, Muzyczka N, Mandel RJ,
Baker H, Ridley RM, Kirik D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, Downing Street, Cambridge, UK.

Overexpression of human alpha-synuclein (alpha-syn) using recombinant
adeno-associated viral (rAAV) vectors provides a novel tool to study
neurodegenerative processes seen in Parkinson's disease and other
synucleinopathies. We used a pseudotyped rAAV2/5 vector to express human
wild-type (wt) alpha-syn, A53T mutated alpha-syn, or the green fluorescent
protein (GFP) in the primate ventral midbrain. Twenty-four adult common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus) were followed with regular behavioural tests for 1 year
after transduction. alpha-Syn overexpression affected motor behaviour such that
all animals remained asymptomatic for at least 9 weeks, then motor bias
comprising head position bias and full body rotations were seen in wt-alpha-syn
expressing animals between 15 and 27 weeks; in the later phase, the animals
overexpressing the A53T alpha -syn, in particular, showed a gradual worsening of 
motor performance, with increased motor coordination errors. Histological
analysis from animals overexpressing either the wt or A53T alpha -syn showed
prominent degeneration of dopaminergic fibres in the striatum. In the ventral
midbrain, however, the dopaminergic neurodegeneration was more prominent in the
A53T group than in the WT group suggesting differential toxicity of these two
proteins in the primate brain. The surviving cell bodies and their processes in
the substantia nigra were stained by antibodies to the pathological form of
alpha-syn that is phosphorylated at Ser position 129. Moreover, we found, for the
first time, ubiquitin containing aggregates after overexpression of alpha-syn in 
the primate midbrain. There was also a variable loss of oligodendroglial cells in
the cerebral peduncle. These histological and behavioural data suggest that this 
model provides unique opportunities to study progressive neurodegeneration in the
dopaminergic system and deposition of alpha-syn and ubiquitin similar to that
seen in Parkinson's disease, and to test novel therapeutic targets for
neuroprotective strategies.

DOI: 10.1093/brain/awl382 
PMID: 17303591  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

