

2431. Brain. 2007 Mar;130(Pt 3):799-815. Epub 2007 Feb 15.

Long-term consequences of human alpha-synuclein overexpression in the primate
ventral midbrain.

Eslamboli A(1), Romero-Ramos M, Burger C, Bjorklund T, Muzyczka N, Mandel RJ,
Baker H, Ridley RM, Kirik D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, Downing Street, Cambridge, UK.

Overexpression of human alpha-synuclein (alpha-syn) using recombinant
adeno-associated viral (rAAV) vectors provides a novel tool to study
neurodegenerative processes seen in Parkinson's disease and other
synucleinopathies. We used a pseudotyped rAAV2/5 vector to express human
wild-type (wt) alpha-syn, A53T mutated alpha-syn, or the green fluorescent
protein (GFP) in the primate ventral midbrain. Twenty-four adult common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus) were followed with regular behavioural tests for 1 year
after transduction. alpha-Syn overexpression affected motor behaviour such that
all animals remained asymptomatic for at least 9 weeks, then motor bias
comprising head position bias and full body rotations were seen in wt-alpha-syn
expressing animals between 15 and 27 weeks; in the later phase, the animals
overexpressing the A53T alpha -syn, in particular, showed a gradual worsening of 
motor performance, with increased motor coordination errors. Histological
analysis from animals overexpressing either the wt or A53T alpha -syn showed
prominent degeneration of dopaminergic fibres in the striatum. In the ventral
midbrain, however, the dopaminergic neurodegeneration was more prominent in the
A53T group than in the WT group suggesting differential toxicity of these two
proteins in the primate brain. The surviving cell bodies and their processes in
the substantia nigra were stained by antibodies to the pathological form of
alpha-syn that is phosphorylated at Ser position 129. Moreover, we found, for the
first time, ubiquitin containing aggregates after overexpression of alpha-syn in 
the primate midbrain. There was also a variable loss of oligodendroglial cells in
the cerebral peduncle. These histological and behavioural data suggest that this 
model provides unique opportunities to study progressive neurodegeneration in the
dopaminergic system and deposition of alpha-syn and ubiquitin similar to that
seen in Parkinson's disease, and to test novel therapeutic targets for
neuroprotective strategies.

DOI: 10.1093/brain/awl382 
PMID: 17303591  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2432. Br J Pharmacol. 2007 Apr;150(7):893-8. Epub 2007 Feb 12.

Nitric oxide fails to confer endogenous antiarrhythmic cardioprotection in the
primate heart in vitro.

Pabla R(1), Curtis MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Cardiovascular Division, Rayne Institute, St Thomas' Hospital, London, UK.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: The role of nitric oxide (NO) in cardiac pathophysiology 
remains controversial. According to data from several studies using rat and
rabbit isolated hearts, NO is an endogenous cardioprotectant against
reperfusion-induced ventricular fibrillation (VF). Thus, if cardiac NO production
is abolished by perfusion with L-N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methylester (L-NAME) (100 
microM) there is a concomittant increase in the incidence of reperfusion-induced 
VF, with L-NAME's effects on NO and VF prevented by L- (but not D-) arginine
co-perfusion. To make a better estimate of the clinical relevance of these
findings, 100 microM L-NAME was tested in primate hearts under similar
conditions.
EXPERIMENTAL APPROACH: Marmoset (Callithrix jaccus) hearts, isolated and
perfused, were subjected to 60 min left regional ischaemia followed by 10 min
reperfusion in vitro. The ECG was recorded and NO in coronary effluent measured
by chemiluminescence.
KEY RESULTS: L-NAME (100 micro M) decreased NO in coronary effluent throughout
ischaemia and reperfusion (e.g. from 3720+/-777 pmol min(-1) g(-1) in controls to
699+/-98 pmol min(-1) g(-1) after 5 min of ischaemia) and, during ischaemia,
lowered coronary flow and reduced heart rate, actions identical to those seen in 
rat and rabbit hearts. However, the incidence of reperfusion-induced VF was
unchanged (20%, with or without L-NAME).
CONCLUSIONS AND IMPLICATIONS: A species difference exists in the effectiveness of
endogenous NO to protect hearts against reperfusion-induced VF. The present
primate data, which presumably take precedence over rat and rabbit data, cast
doubt on the clinical relevance of NO as an endogenous, antiarrhythmic,
cardioprotectant.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bjp.0707143 
PMCID: PMC2013886
PMID: 17293889  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

