

2441. Mol Cell Endocrinol. 2007 Feb;265-266:93-101. Epub 2007 Jan 10.

Gender and gonadal status differences in zona reticularis expression in marmoset 
monkey adrenals: Cytochrome b5 localization with respect to cytochrome P450
17,20-lyase activity.

Pattison JC(1), Saltzman W, Abbott DH, Hogan BK, Nguyen AD, Husen B, Einspanier
A, Conley AJ, Bird IM.

Author information: 
(1)Perinatal Research Laboratories, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI 
53715, USA.

Neonatal marmosets express an adrenal fetal zone comparable to humans. While
adult males fail to express a functional ZR, with barely detectable blood DHEA
levels, females produce higher levels of DHEA than males in adulthood. We
investigated the presence of a putative functional ZR in adult female marmosets. 
In contrast to males, immunohistochemical analysis showed the ZR marker
cytochrome b5 was elevated in the innermost zone in cycling females (compared to 
testis-intact males), further elevated in the adrenals from anovulatory females, 
and substantially elevated and continuous in ovariectomized females. As a
functional test in vivo, following overnight dexamethasone treatment, cycling and
anovulatory females showed higher levels of DHEA relative to males, but DHEA
failed to increase in response to ACTH. In direct contrast, while ovariectomized 
females exhibited lower initial DHEA levels, clear increases were detectable
after ACTH administration (p<0.05), suggesting an adrenal origin. The apparent
differences in cytochrome b5 expression between groups were also further verified
by Western blotting of adrenal microsomes, and compared to 17,20-lyase activity; 
the two parameters were positively correlated (p<0.01) across multiple treatment 
groups. We conclude that the cycling female marmoset expresses a rudimentary ZR
with at least a capacity for DHEA production that becomes significantly
ACTH-responsive after anovulation. Expression of cytochrome b5 in this region may
be directly or indirectly controlled by gonadal function, and is, at least in
part, a critical determinant in the development of an adrenal ZR that is more
defined and significantly ACTH-responsive.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mce.2006.12.023 
PMCID: PMC1839875
PMID: 17222503  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2442. Endocrinology. 2007 Apr;148(4):1813-22. Epub 2007 Jan 11.

Effects of prenatal dexamethasone treatment on postnatal physical, endocrine, and
social development in the common marmoset monkey.

Hauser J(1), Dettling-Artho A, Pilloud S, Maier C, Knapman A, Feldon J, Pryce CR.

Author information: 
(1)Behavioural Neurobiology Laboratory, Swiss Federal Institute of
Technology-Zurich, Schorenstrasse 16, CH-8603 Schwerzenbach, Switzerland.

The prophylactic treatment of diagnosed preterm delivery with synthetic
glucocorticoids, such as dexamethasone (DEX), is commonplace. Long-term effects
of such treatment are not well understood. In the present study, we exposed
pregnant common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus), small-bodied monkeys that are
therefore advantageous for long-term primate studies, to daily repeated DEX (5
mg/kg orally) either during early (d 42-48) or late (d 90-96) pregnancy
(gestation period of 144 d). Relative to control, we investigated DEX effects in 
terms of maternal endocrinology (plasma cortisol and estrogen titers) and
offspring physical growth, plasma and urinary ACTH and cortisol titers, and
social and maintenance behaviors from birth to weaning. Both DEX treatments
resulted in markedly reduced maternal plasma cortisol titers during treatment and
reduced estimated gestation period. Both treatments were without effects on
neonate morphometric measurements and basal hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis
activity. Early DEX treatment resulted in increased infant body weight at
postnatal d 56 and 84, co-occurring at the behavioral level with increased time
spent in eating solid food, a mobile state, solitary play, and exhibiting tail
hair piloerection. The constellation of physical and behavioral effects of early 
DEX suggests interesting parallels with the human metabolic syndrome, providing
primate support that the latter is causally associated with the fetal
environment, including prenatal programming. This novel primate in vivo evidence 
for postnatal effects of prenatal synthetic glucocorticoid exposure indicates the
importance of improved understanding of this acute clinical treatment in terms of
its long-term effects on offspring well-being.

DOI: 10.1210/en.2006-1306 
PMID: 17218413  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

