

2448. Am J Primatol. 2007 Feb;69(2):234-40.

Demographic review of a captive colony of callitrichids (Callithrix kuhlii).

Ross CN(1), Fite JE, Jensen H, French JA.

Author information: 
(1)School of Biological Sciences, University of Nebraska at Lincoln, Lincoln, NE,
USA. rossc4@uthscsa.edu

Although reports on colony demographics for a variety of callitrichid species are
available in the literature, to date there has not been a detailed examination of
Wied's black tufted-ear marmoset (Callithrix kuhlii). The purpose of this study
is to present colony demographics for C. kuhlii from the University of Nebraska
at Omaha's Callitrichid Research Center from 1991 to 2002. C. kuhlii are
currently held in a number of zoological parks in the United States and abroad;
however, the University of Nebraska at Omaha held the only breeding colony in
North America. Here we report data on lifespan, sex ratio, litter size, and
interbirth interval (IBI) for that captive breeding colony.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20367 
PMCID: PMC2980351
PMID: 17177315  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2449. J Comp Neurol. 2007 Feb 10;500(5):832-49.

Chemoarchitecture of the middle temporal visual area in the marmoset monkey
(Callithrix jacchus): laminar distribution of calcium-binding proteins
(calbindin, parvalbumin) and nonphosphorylated neurofilament.

Bourne JA(1), Warner CE, Upton DJ, Rosa MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Clayton, Victoria 3800,
Australia. james.bourne@med.monash.edu.au

We studied the distributions of interneurons containing the calcium-binding
proteins parvalbumin and calbindin D-28k, as well as that of pyramidal neurons
containing nonphosphorylated neurofilament (NNF), in the middle temporal visual
area (MT) of marmoset monkeys. The distributions of these classes of cells in MT 
are distinct from those found in adjacent areas. Similar to the primary visual
area (V1), in MT, calbindin-immunopositive neurons can be objectively classified 
into "dark" and "light" subtypes based on optical density of stained cell bodies.
Calbindin-positive dark neurons are particularly concentrated in layers 2 and 3, 
whereas light neurons have a more widespread distribution. In addition, a
subcategory of calbindin-positive dark neuron, characterized by a "halo" of
stained processes surrounding the cell body, is found within and around layer 4
of MT and V1. These cells are rare in most other visual areas. In comparison,
parvalbumin-immunopositive cells in area MT have a relatively homogeneous
distribution, although with a trend toward higher spatial density in lower layer 
3, and are relatively uniform in terms of density of staining. Finally, MT shows 
a characteristic trilaminar distribution of NNF-immunopositive pyramidal cells,
with stained cell bodies evident in layers 3, 5, and 6. Although the laminar
distribution of cells stained for the three markers overlap to some extent, these
subcategories can be readily distinguished in terms of morphology, including cell
body size. Chemoarchitectural parallels observed between MT and V1 suggest
comparable physiological requirements and neuronal circuitry.
