

2454. Biol Lett. 2005 Jun 22;1(2):223-6.

The ecology and evolution of patience in two New World monkeys.

Stevens JR(1), Hallinan EV, Hauser MD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology and Primate Cognitive Neuroscience Laboratory,
Harvard University, Cambridge, MA 02138, USA. jstevens@wjh.harvard.edu

Decision making often involves choosing between small, short-term rewards and
large, long-term rewards. All animals, humans included, discount future
rewards--the present value of delayed rewards is viewed as less than the value of
immediate rewards. Despite its ubiquity, there exists considerable but
unexplained variation between species in their capacity to wait for rewards--that
is, to exert patience or self-control. Using two closely related primates--common
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) and cotton-top tamarins (Saguinus oedipus)--we
uncover a variable that may explain differences in how species discount future
rewards. Both species faced a self-control paradigm in which individuals chose
between taking an immediate small reward and waiting a variable amount of time
for a large reward. Under these conditions, marmosets waited significantly longer
for food than tamarins. This difference cannot be explained by life history,
social behaviour or brain size. It can, however, be explained by feeding ecology:
marmosets rely on gum, a food product acquired by waiting for exudate to flow
from trees, whereas tamarins feed on insects, a food product requiring impulsive 
action. Foraging ecology, therefore, may provide a selective pressure for the
evolution of self-control.

DOI: 10.1098/rsbl.2004.0285 
PMCID: PMC1626214
PMID: 17148172  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2455. Am J Primatol. 2007 Apr;69(4):420-33.

Radiographic evaluation of neonatal skeletal development in Callimico goeldii
reveals closer similarity to Callithrix jacchus than to Saguinus oedipus.

Hofmann MI(1), Schradin C, Geissmann T.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Anatomy, University of Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland.
m.hofmann@anatom.unizh.ch

The phylogenetic affinities of the neotropical Goeldi's monkey (Callimico
goeldii) have long been a matter of debate. Whereas most morphological evidence
appears to place Callimico in a sister group position relative to the
Callitrichidae, genetic studies place C. goeldii within the Callitrichidae and
suggest that it is more closely related to marmosets than to tamarins. The
present study presents the first radiographic analysis comparing the secondary
limb bone ossification of newborn C. goeldii with representatives of the
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) and tamarins (Saguinus oedipus). The state of
secondary ossification of the epiphysis and short bones is classified into three 
different ontogenetic stages. Our results reveal that in terms of the number of
ossification centers, C. goeldii is significantly closer to C. jacchus than to S.
oedipus. This is the first morphological study to support the findings of
molecular studies, and the results suggest that C. goeldii is more closely
related to marmosets than to tamarins.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20361 
PMID: 17146795  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

