

2463. Toxicology. 2007 Apr 20;233(1-3):128-44. Epub 2006 Sep 29.

Swine models in the design of more effective medical countermeasures against
organophosphorus poisoning.

Dorandeu F(1), Mikler JR, Thiermann H, Tenn C, Davidson C, Sawyer TW, Lallement
G, Worek F.

Author information: 
(1)Département de Toxicologie, Centre de Recherches du Service de Santé des
Armées, 24 Avenue des Maquis du Gresivaudan, BP 87, F-38702 La Tronche Cedex,
France. fdorandeu@crssa.net

Although the three most commonly used large mammal species in the safety
assessment of drugs remain the dog, the macaque and the marmoset, swine,
especially minipigs, have also been widely used over the years in many
toxicological studies. Swine present a number of interesting biological and
physiological characteristics. Similarities in skin properties with humans have
led to extensive in vitro and in vivo studies. There is a specific interest in
cardiovascular research, as well as in anaesthesiology and critical care medicine
due to common features of swine and human physiology. Although knowledge of swine
brain structure and functions remains incomplete, data does exist. The multiple
blood sampling that is necessary in pharmacokinetic and toxicokinetic studies are
possible, as well as multiparametric monitoring and interventions with equipment 
used in human clinical settings. Practicality (handling), scientific (stress
reduction) and ethical (invasive monitoring) reasons have led research teams to
incorporate anaesthesia into their paradigms which makes the analysis of data
increasingly difficult. Although not substantiated by scientific data, the swine 
appears to have an intermediate position in the scale of public perception
between non-human primates and animals commonly referred to as pets (i.e. dogs
and cats) and rodents. The benefits of the swine model justify the use of these
animals in the design of more effective medical countermeasures against known
chemical warfare agents (nerve agents, vesicants and lung damaging agents).
Exposure to organophosphorus (OP) pesticides represents a severe health issue in 
developing countries, while OP intoxication with the more lethal military nerve
agents is not only of military concern but also a terrorist threat. Tailoring
therapeutic regimens to the reality of OP poisoning is of the utmost importance
when little experimental data and sparse human clinical data are available in the
decision making process. We will present some of the advantages and disadvantages
of the swine model in OP countermeasures elaborating on two examples. First, we
will present the issues related to the use of anaesthesia during experimental OP 
poisoning and second we will show how results from experiments with swine can be 
integrated into a kinetic-based dynamic model to evaluate oxime efficacy. A
better knowledge of OP poisoning in swine (comparative toxicokinetics,
pharmacokinetics and biochemistry) is definitely necessary before accepting it as
a first choice non-rodent model. However, there exists a large amount of data in 
the model on anaesthesia and different types of shock favouring their use for
evaluation of complex situations such as the anaesthesia of OP poisoned patients 
and combined injuries.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tox.2006.09.013 
PMID: 17092624  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2464. Int J Syst Evol Microbiol. 2006 Nov;56(Pt 11):2671-2676. doi:
10.1099/ijs.0.64378-0.

Pseudomonas simiae sp. nov., isolated from clinical specimens from monkeys
(Callithrix geoffroyi).

Vela AI(1), Gutiérrez MC(2), Falsen E(3), Rollán E(4), Simarro I(1), García P(4),
Domínguez L(1), Ventosa A(2), Fernández-Garayzábal JF(1).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento Sanidad Animal, Facultad de Veterinaria, Universidad Complutense,
Avda Puerta de Hierro s/n, 28040 Madrid, Spain.
(2)Departamento de Microbiología y Parasitología, Facultad de Farmacia, Sevilla, 
Spain.
(3)Culture Collection, Department of Clinical Bacteriology, University of
Göteborg, Sweden.
(4)Departamento de Medicina y Cirugía Animal, Facultad de Veterinaria,
Universidad Complutense, Madrid, Spain.

An unusual Gram-negative, catalase- and oxidase-positive, rod-shaped bacterium
isolated from different clinical samples from two monkeys (Callithrix geoffroyi) 
was characterized by phenotypic and molecular genetic methods. The micro-organism
was tentatively identified as a Pseudomonas species on the basis of the results
of cellular morphological and biochemical tests. Fatty acid studies confirmed
this generic placement and comparative 16S rRNA gene sequencing studies
demonstrated that the unknown isolates were phylogenetically closely related to
each other (100% sequence similarity) and were part of the 'Pseudomonas
fluorescens intrageneric cluster'. The novel bacterium, however, was
distinguished from other phylogenetically related species of Pseudomonas by
DNA-DNA hybridization studies and biochemical tests. On the basis of both
phenotypic and phylogenetic findings, it is proposed that the novel Pseudomonas
isolates are classified as Pseudomonas simiae sp. nov. The type strain of P.
simiae is OLiT (=CCUG 50988T=CECT 7078T).

DOI: 10.1099/ijs.0.64378-0 
PMID: 17082409  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

