

2469. Int Immunopharmacol. 2006 Dec 5;6(12):1765-79. Epub 2006 Aug 23.

Multiple vaccine and pyridostigmine bromide interactions in the common marmoset
Callithrix jacchus: immunological and endocrinological effects.

Hornby RJ(1), Pearce PC, Bowditch AP, Scott L, Griffiths GD.

Author information: 
(1)Biomedical Sciences Department, Defence Science and Technology Laboratory,
Porton Down, Salisbury, UK.

Following active service during the 1990/1991 Gulf Conflict, a number of UK and
US veterans presented with a diverse range of symptoms, collectively known as
Gulf Veterans Illnesses (GVI). The administration of vaccines and/or the
pretreatment against possible nerve agent poisoning, pyridostigmine bromide (PB),
given to Armed Forces personnel during the Gulf Conflict has been implicated as a
possible factor in the aetiology of these illnesses. The possibility that adverse
health effects may result from the administration of these vaccines (anthrax,
pertussis, plague, yellow fever, polio, typhoid, tetanus, hepatitis B,
meningococcal meningitis and cholera) and/or PB, have been investigated over an
eighteen month period, in a non-human primate model, the common marmoset. This
study reports immunological indices, including leukocyte phenotypes,
intracellular cytokines IFN-gamma and IL-4 and antibody responses against vaccine
antigens. Using human isotyping reagents previously shown to cross react with
marmoset immunoglobulins (ibid) it was shown that marmosets responded strongly
against anthrax PA and pertussis and weakly against killed whole cell plague,
cholera and typhoid. At the end of the study the immune response to a previously 
unseen T-cell dependent antigen, keyhole limpet haemocyanin (KLH), was examined
in order to determine whether immune function had been compromised by the
compounds administered. Statistically equivalent, robust antibody responses were 
measured against KLH in all treatment groups indicating that the immune system
had not been compromised by any of the treatments. In addition, urinary cortisol 
was measured at key points throughout the study as an index of physiological
stress which may have been induced by the treatments. There were no effects of
treatment on urinary cortisol secretion. With respect to the other immunological 
indices measured, there were no statistical differences between the treatment
groups during the period of the study.

DOI: 10.1016/j.intimp.2006.07.016 
PMID: 17052667  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2470. Int Immunopharmacol. 2006 Dec 5;6(12):1755-64. Epub 2006 Sep 1.

Development of methods to measure humoral immune responses against selected
antigens in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) and the effect of
pyridostigmine bromide administration.

Griffiths GD(1), Hornby RJ, Jagger CP, Brown AP, Stoten A, Pearce PC, Scott L,
Pritchard DI.

Author information: 
(1)Biomedical Sciences, Defence Science and Technology Laboratory, Porton Down,
Salisbury, UK. gdgriffiths@dstl.gov.uk

This methodological study was carried out in preparation for a major long term
study, also reported in this volume, which was designed to investigate whether
the combination of vaccines and pyridostigmine bromide (PB) could have been
responsible for adverse signs and symptoms reported by a number of veterans of
the 1990/1991 Gulf conflict. In this context, the marmoset has been used to model
aspects of the human immune system. The purposes of this methodological study
were to select appropriate immunochemical reagents to measure humoral responses
induced in marmosets in response to selected health and hygiene and biological
warfare vaccines and to initially assess the effects of PB on the responses
recorded. Vaccines were administered at 1/5th of a human dose, and also
investigated in combination with the nerve agent pretreatment compound PB. PB
dosing was selected to induce an inhibition of erythrocyte acetylcholinesterase
by 30%. In order to assess the functionality of the immune system, antibody
responses to a neo-antigen (keyhole limpet haemocyanin--KLH), administered some 2
months following the completion of the vaccination schedule, were measured. The
present study identified appropriate isotyping reporter reagents which
cross-reacted with equivalent marmoset immunoglobulins. Robust antibody responses
were identified against anthrax protective antigen (PA), whole cell pertussis
vaccine and KLH, while weaker responses were measured against cholera and typhoid
vaccines. The killed whole cell plague vaccine induced a response which was at
the limit of detection of the assay. Coadministered PB had no discernable effect 
on immunological responses in this study.

DOI: 10.1016/j.intimp.2006.08.005 
PMID: 17052666  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

