

2471. J Neurophysiol. 2007 Feb;97(2):1005-17. Epub 2006 Oct 18.

Neural representations of temporally modulated signals in the auditory thalamus
of awake primates.

Bartlett EL(1), Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Biomedical Engineering, Traylor 412, Johns Hopkins University, 720
Rutland Avenue, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA. ebartle@purdue.edu

In sensory systems, the thalamus has historically been considered a relay
station. Neural representations of temporal modulations in the auditory system
undergo considerable changes as they pass from the inferior colliculus (IC) to
the auditory cortex. We sought to determine in awake primates the extent to which
auditory thalamic neurons contribute to these transformations. We tested the
temporal processing capabilities of medial geniculate body (MGB) neurons in awake
marmoset monkeys using repetitive click stimuli. MGB neurons were able to
synchronize to periodic clicks at repetition rates significantly higher than
auditory cortex neurons. Unlike responses in the MGB of anesthetized animals,
>40% of MGB neurons in awake marmosets displayed nonsynchronized discharges when 
stimulated by high click rates (short interclick intervals). Such nonsynchronized
MGB responses typically occurred at higher repetition rates than those observed
in auditory cortex. In contrast to auditory cortex neurons, many MGB neurons
exhibited both synchronized and nonsynchronized discharge patterns. In both MGB
and auditory cortex, synchronized and nonsynchronized responses represented
complementary ranges of interclick intervals (1/click rate). Furthermore, the
temporal processing abilities of some MGB neurons were sensitive to the
spectrotemporal parameters of the click stimuli used. Together, these findings
suggest that MGB neurons participate in active transformations of the neural
representations of temporal modulations from IC to auditory cortex. In
particular, the MGB appears to be the first station in the auditory ascending
pathway in which substantial nonsynchronized responses emerge.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00593.2006 
PMID: 17050830  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2472. Eur J Neurosci. 2006 Oct;24(8):2389-405. Epub 2006 Oct 17.

A distinct anatomical network of cortical areas for analysis of motion in far
peripheral vision.

Palmer SM(1), Rosa MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Clayton, VIC 3800, Australia.

We defined cortical areas involved in the analysis of motion in the far
peripheral visual field, a poorly understood aspect of visual processing in
primates. This was accomplished by small tracer injections within and around the 
representations of the monocular field of vision ('temporal crescents') in the
middle temporal area (MT) of marmoset monkeys. Quantitative analyses demonstrate 
that the representation of the far periphery receives specific connections from
the retrosplenial cortex (areas 23v and prostriata), as well as comparatively
stronger inputs from the primary visual area (V1) and from areas surrounding MT
(in particular, the medial superior temporal area, MST). In contrast, the far
peripheral representation receives little or no input from most other
extrastriate areas, including the second visual area (V2), the densely myelinated
areas of the dorsomedial cortex, and ventral stream areas; these areas are shown 
to have robust projections to other parts of MT. Our results demonstrate that the
responses of cells in different parts of a same visual area can be determined by 
different combinations of synaptic inputs, in terms of areas of origin. They also
suggest that the interconnections responsible for motion processing in the far
periphery of the visual field convey information that is crucial for
rapid-response aspects of visual function such as orienting, postural and
defensive reactions.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2006.05113.x 
PMID: 17042793  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

