

2480. J Mol Evol. 2006 Nov;63(5):591-601. Epub 2006 Sep 26.

Evolution of growth hormone in primates: the GH gene clusters of the New World
monkeys marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) and white-fronted capuchin (Cebus
albifrons).

Wallis OC(1), Wallis M.

Author information: 
(1)Biochemistry Department, School of Life Sciences, University of Sussex,
Brighton BN1 9QG, UK.

The GH gene cluster in marmoset, Callithrix jacchus, comprises eight GH-like
genes and pseudogenes and appears to have arisen as a consequence of gene
duplications occurring independently of those leading to the human GH gene
cluster. We report here the complete sequence of the marmoset GH gene locus,
including the intergenic regions and 5' and 3' flanking sequence, and a study of 
the multiple GH-like genes of an additional New World monkey (NWM), the
white-fronted capuchin, Cebus albifrons. The marmoset sequence includes 945
nucleotides (nt) of 5' flanking sequence and 1596 nt of 3' flanking sequence that
are "unique"; between these are eight repeat units, including the eight GH
genes/pseudogenes. The breakpoints between these repeats are very similar,
indicating a regular pattern of gene duplication. These breakpoints do not
correspond to those found in the much less regular human GH gene cluster. This
and phylogenetic analysis of the repeat units within the marmoset gene cluster
strongly support the independent origin of these gene clusters, and the idea that
the episode of rapid evolution that occurred during GH evolution in primates
preceded the gene duplications. The marmoset GH gene cluster also differs from
that of human in having fewer and more evenly distributed Alu sequences (a single
pair in each repeat unit) and a "P-element" upstream of every gene/pseudogene. In
human there is no P-element upstream of the gene encoding pituitary GH, and these
elements have been implicated in placental expression of the other genes of the
cluster. The GH gene clusters in marmoset and capuchin appear to have arisen as
the consequence of a single-gene duplication event, but in capuchin there was
then a remarkable expansion of the GH locus, giving at least 40 GH-like genes and
pseudogenes. Thus even among NWMs the GH gene cluster is very variable.

DOI: 10.1007/s00239-006-0039-5 
PMID: 17009125  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2481. Reproduction. 2006 Oct;132(4):589-600.

Administration of vascular endothelial growth factor Trap during the
'post-angiogenic' period of the luteal phase causes rapid functional luteolysis
and selective endothelial cell death in the marmoset.

Fraser HM(1), Wilson H, Wulff C, Rudge JS, Wiegand SJ.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council Human Reproductive Sciences Unit, The Queen's Medical
Research Institute, 47 Little France Crescent, Edinburgh EH16 4TJ, UK.
h.fraser@hrsu.mrc.ac.uk

The intense angiogenesis characteristic of early corpus luteum development is
dependent upon vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) as inhibitors of VEGF
administered at the peri-ovulatory period suppress endothelial cell proliferation
and progesterone secretion. We now report that administration of VEGF Trap, a
soluble decoy receptor-based inhibitor, at the mid- or the late luteal phase in
the marmoset results in a rapid decline in plasma progesterone. Since
vascularisation of the corpus luteum is largely complete by the mid-luteal phase,
it suggested that this functional luteolysis involved mechanisms other than
inhibition of angiogenesis. A second experiment investigated the role of VEGF in 
maintaining the integrity of the luteal vasculature and hormone-producing cells. 
VEGF Trap was administered to marmosets in the mid-luteal phase and ovaries were 
obtained 1, 2, 4 or 8 days later for localisation of activated caspase-3 staining
in the corpus luteum and compared with those obtained 2, 4 and 8 days after
administration of control protein. The number of cells with activated caspase-3
staining was significantly increased after administration of VEGF Trap. Dual
staining of activated caspase-3 with the endothelial cell marker CD31 showed that
at 1 day post-treatment, more than 90% caspase-3-stained cells were vascular
endothelium, prior to detection of an increasing incidence in death of
hormone-producing cells on days 2 and 4. Staining with CD31 showed that the
endothelial cell area was decreased after treatment. By 8 days after treatment,
corpora lutea had regressed to varying degrees, while all control corpora lutea
remained healthy. These results show that VEGF inhibition in the mid- or the late
luteal phase induces functional luteolysis in the marmoset that is associated
with premature and selective death of endothelial cells.

DOI: 10.1530/rep.1.01064 
PMID: 17008470  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

