

2481. Reproduction. 2006 Oct;132(4):589-600.

Administration of vascular endothelial growth factor Trap during the
'post-angiogenic' period of the luteal phase causes rapid functional luteolysis
and selective endothelial cell death in the marmoset.

Fraser HM(1), Wilson H, Wulff C, Rudge JS, Wiegand SJ.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council Human Reproductive Sciences Unit, The Queen's Medical
Research Institute, 47 Little France Crescent, Edinburgh EH16 4TJ, UK.
h.fraser@hrsu.mrc.ac.uk

The intense angiogenesis characteristic of early corpus luteum development is
dependent upon vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) as inhibitors of VEGF
administered at the peri-ovulatory period suppress endothelial cell proliferation
and progesterone secretion. We now report that administration of VEGF Trap, a
soluble decoy receptor-based inhibitor, at the mid- or the late luteal phase in
the marmoset results in a rapid decline in plasma progesterone. Since
vascularisation of the corpus luteum is largely complete by the mid-luteal phase,
it suggested that this functional luteolysis involved mechanisms other than
inhibition of angiogenesis. A second experiment investigated the role of VEGF in 
maintaining the integrity of the luteal vasculature and hormone-producing cells. 
VEGF Trap was administered to marmosets in the mid-luteal phase and ovaries were 
obtained 1, 2, 4 or 8 days later for localisation of activated caspase-3 staining
in the corpus luteum and compared with those obtained 2, 4 and 8 days after
administration of control protein. The number of cells with activated caspase-3
staining was significantly increased after administration of VEGF Trap. Dual
staining of activated caspase-3 with the endothelial cell marker CD31 showed that
at 1 day post-treatment, more than 90% caspase-3-stained cells were vascular
endothelium, prior to detection of an increasing incidence in death of
hormone-producing cells on days 2 and 4. Staining with CD31 showed that the
endothelial cell area was decreased after treatment. By 8 days after treatment,
corpora lutea had regressed to varying degrees, while all control corpora lutea
remained healthy. These results show that VEGF inhibition in the mid- or the late
luteal phase induces functional luteolysis in the marmoset that is associated
with premature and selective death of endothelial cells.

DOI: 10.1530/rep.1.01064 
PMID: 17008470  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2482. J Acoust Soc Am. 2006 Sep;120(3):1655-70.

Acoustic analysis of vocal development in a New World primate, the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Pistorio AL(1), Vintch B, Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.

In contrast to humans and songbirds, there is limited evidence of vocal learning 
in nonhuman primates. While previous studies suggested that primate vocalizations
exhibit developmental changes, detailed analyses of the extent and time course of
such changes across a species' vocal repertoire remain limited. In a highly vocal
primate, the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), we studied developmental
changes in the acoustic structure of species-specific communication sounds
produced in a social setting. We performed detailed acoustic analyses of the
spectral and temporal characteristics of marmoset vocalizations during
development, comparing differences between genders and twin pairs, as well as
with vocalizations from adult marmosets residing in the same colony. Our analyses
revealed significant changes in spectral and temporal features as well as
variability of particular call types over time. Infant and juvenile vocalizations
changed progressively toward the vocalizations produced by adult marmosets. Call 
types observed early in development that were unique to infants disappeared
gradually with age, while vocal exchanges with conspecifics emerged. Our
observations clearly indicate that marmoset vocalizations undergo both
qualitative and quantitative postnatal changes, establishing the basis for
further studies to delineate contributions from maturation of the vocal apparatus
and behavioral experience.

DOI: 10.1121/1.2225899 
PMID: 17004487  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

