

2485. Neurosci Lett. 2006 Nov 13;408(2):89-93. Epub 2006 Sep 18.

Time-dependent increase in Nogo-A expression after focal cerebral ischemia in
marmoset monkeys.

Eslamboli A(1), Grundy RI, Irving EA.

Author information: 
(1)Neurology and GI CEDD, GlaxoSmithKline, New Frontiers Science Park North,
Third Avenue, Harlow, Essex CM19 5AW, United Kingdom.

Nogo-A is a myelin-associated protein that has been shown to inhibit axonal
sprouting after lesions to the CNS. Several studies have demonstrated that
blocking the activity or expression of this inhibitor can induce structural and
functional recovery after CNS lesions. However, there are limited and
contradictory data on the expression of Nogo-A after CNS lesions. In the present 
study, marmoset monkeys received permanent occlusion of the middle cerebral
artery (MCAo). Two, 3, or 4 months after the onset of injury brain sections were 
stained for Nogo-A protein. Two sham operated marmosets were included as a
control. Nogo-A protein expression was quantified in white matter and grey matter
in the areas adjacent to the lesion (or the equivalent areas in the intact side).
At 2 months after injury, but not at 3 or 4 months, there was a significant
increase in the number of oligodendrocytes that were Nogo-A immunopositive. This 
increase was observed in white matter structures that were adjacent to the lesion
(e.g. corona radiate (CR)); but not in: white matter structures distal to the
lesion (e.g. corpus callosum (CC)); cortical regions adjacent to the lesion;
contralateral regions or in sham operated marmosets. These data suggest that
Nogo-A levels are significantly increased within oligodendrocytes in areas
adjacent to the lesion up to 2 months following cerebral ischaemia. Future
studies will determine whether this offers the opportunity to promote plasticity 
by targeting Nogo-A weeks or months following stroke.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neulet.2006.08.056 
PMID: 16982144  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2486. Anim Cogn. 2007 Apr;10(2):149-58. Epub 2006 Sep 13.

Common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) do not utilize social information in three 
simultaneous social foraging tasks.

Voelkl B(1), Huber L.

Author information: 
(1)Department for Behaviour, Neurobiology and Cognition, Faculty of Life
Sciences, University of Vienna, Althanstr. 14, 1090, Vienna, Austria.
bernhard.voelkl@univie.ac.at

Social foraging is suggested to increase foraging efficiency, as individuals
might benefit from public information acquired by monitoring the foraging
activities of other group members. We conducted a series experiments with captive
common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) to investigate to what extent marmosets
utilize social information about food location when foraging simultaneously with 
conspecifics. Subjects were confronted with dominant and subordinate
demonstrators in three experiments which differed in the amount of information
about food location available to the demonstrators. In all three experiments, the
focal subjects' performance in the social condition was not enhanced in
comparison to a non-social control condition. Because we could rule out
kleptoparasitism and aggressive displacements as explanations, we argue that the 
subjects' tendency for scramble competition by avoiding others and dispersing
over the foraging area seems to inhibit or mask the acquisition of social
information about the location of rewarded patches.

DOI: 10.1007/s10071-006-0053-4 
PMID: 16969636  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

