

2489. ILAR J. 2006;47(4):307-15.

Preparing New World monkeys for laboratory research.

Tardif S(1), Bales K, Williams L, Moeller EL, Abbott D, Schultz-Darken N, Mendoza
S, Mason W, Bourgeois S, Ruiz J.

Author information: 
(1)Southwest National Primate Research Center (SNPRC), San Antonio, TX, USA.
stardif@sfbr.org

New World monkeys represent an important but often poorly understood research
resource. The relatively small size and low zoonotic risk of these animals make
them appealing as research subjects in a number of areas. However, historic
portrayal of many of these species as difficult to manage and handle is one of
the factors that has limited their use. Basic guidelines are provided on
management and handling approaches for the New World monkeys most commonly used
in research: marmosets, squirrel monkeys, owl monkeys, and titi monkeys. Topics
include transport and acclimation to a new facility, location changes within a
facility, diet changes, removal from and return to social groups, capture and
restraint, handling for anesthesia, postprocedural monitoring, and staff
training.

DOI: 10.1093/ilar.47.4.307 
PMID: 16963811  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2490. Brain Res. 2006 Nov 6;1118(1):239-50. Epub 2006 Sep 7.

Osteopontin expression in substantia nigra in MPTP-treated primates and in
Parkinson's disease.

Iczkiewicz J(1), Jackson MJ, Smith LA, Rose S, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Diseases Research Centre, Guy's, King's and St Thomas'
School of Biomedical Sciences, King's College, London, UK.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterised by the loss of dopaminergic neurones in
the substantia nigra (SN) but the pathogenic mechanism remains unknown. Cell
death involves oxidative stress and inflammatory mechanisms, and these may be
altered by the actions of the glycosylated phosphoprotein osteopontin (OPN). OPN 
is present in the rat SN, but its presence in human and non-human primate brain
has not been extensively studied. Both OPN mRNA and protein were present in the
normal marmoset SN, and OPN protein was localised to nigral neurones although
these were not dopaminergic cells and it was not present in glial cells. In
contrast, OPN protein was found in dopaminergic neurones in the normal human SN
but again not in glial cells with some accumulation in the extracellular matrix. 
Following MPTP treatment of common marmosets, OPN protein expression was
decreased, although its mRNA levels were unchanged and it was not present in
either activated microglia or astrocytes. In the SN in PD, OPN protein expression
was decreased in the remaining dopaminergic neurones and it was present in
activated microglia but not in astrocytes. This was not specific to PD as OPN
protein expression was also decreased in the SN in multiple system atrophy and
progressive supranuclear palsy with an identical localisation of the protein. The
presence of OPN in the normal human and non-human primate SN coupled to its
decreased expression following nigral cell degeneration suggests that it may play
an important role in dopaminergic neurone survival.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brainres.2006.08.036 
PMID: 16962083  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

