

2490. Brain Res. 2006 Nov 6;1118(1):239-50. Epub 2006 Sep 7.

Osteopontin expression in substantia nigra in MPTP-treated primates and in
Parkinson's disease.

Iczkiewicz J(1), Jackson MJ, Smith LA, Rose S, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Diseases Research Centre, Guy's, King's and St Thomas'
School of Biomedical Sciences, King's College, London, UK.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterised by the loss of dopaminergic neurones in
the substantia nigra (SN) but the pathogenic mechanism remains unknown. Cell
death involves oxidative stress and inflammatory mechanisms, and these may be
altered by the actions of the glycosylated phosphoprotein osteopontin (OPN). OPN 
is present in the rat SN, but its presence in human and non-human primate brain
has not been extensively studied. Both OPN mRNA and protein were present in the
normal marmoset SN, and OPN protein was localised to nigral neurones although
these were not dopaminergic cells and it was not present in glial cells. In
contrast, OPN protein was found in dopaminergic neurones in the normal human SN
but again not in glial cells with some accumulation in the extracellular matrix. 
Following MPTP treatment of common marmosets, OPN protein expression was
decreased, although its mRNA levels were unchanged and it was not present in
either activated microglia or astrocytes. In the SN in PD, OPN protein expression
was decreased in the remaining dopaminergic neurones and it was present in
activated microglia but not in astrocytes. This was not specific to PD as OPN
protein expression was also decreased in the SN in multiple system atrophy and
progressive supranuclear palsy with an identical localisation of the protein. The
presence of OPN in the normal human and non-human primate SN coupled to its
decreased expression following nigral cell degeneration suggests that it may play
an important role in dopaminergic neurone survival.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brainres.2006.08.036 
PMID: 16962083  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2491. Mov Disord. 2006 Nov;21(11):1879-91.

Pharmacological characterization of psychosis-like behavior in the MPTP-lesioned 
nonhuman primate model of Parkinson's disease.

Visanji NP(1), Gomez-Ramirez J, Johnston TH, Pires D, Voon V, Brotchie JM, Fox
SH.

Author information: 
(1)Toronto Western Research Institute, Toronto Western Hospital, Toronto,
Ontario, Canada.

Investigation of the pathophysiology of psychosis in Parkinson's disease (PD), as
well as the assessment of potential novel therapeutics, has been limited by the
lack of a well-validated animal model. MPTP-lesioned primates exhibit abnormal
behaviors that are distinct from dyskinesia and parkinsonism and may represent
behavioral correlates of neural processes related to psychosis in PD. Here we
assess four types of behavior--agitation, hallucinatory-like responses to
nonapparent stimuli, obsessive grooming, and stereotypies that are termed
"psychosis-like"--and define their pharmacology using a psychosis-like behavior
rating scale. By assessing the actions of drugs known to enhance or attenuate
psychosis in PD patients, we find that the pharmacology of these behaviors
recapitulates, in several respects, the pharmacology of psychosis in PD. Thus,
levodopa and apomorphine elicited psychosis-like behaviors. Amantadine
significantly decreased levodopa-induced dyskinesia but exacerbated
psychosis-like behaviors. Haloperidol reduced psychosis-like behaviors but at the
expense of increased parkinsonian disability while the atypical neuroleptics
clozapine and quetiapine reduced psychosis-like behaviors without significant
effect on parkinsonian disability. The response of different components of the
psychotomimetic behavior suggested the involvement of both dopaminergic and
nondopaminergic mechanisms in their expression.

DOI: 10.1002/mds.21073 
PMID: 16960862  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

