

2499. J Clin Virol. 2006 Oct;37(2):98-103. Epub 2006 Aug 22.

Hypoxia can contribute to the induction of the Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) lytic
cycle.

Jiang JH(1), Wang N, Li A, Liao WT, Pan ZG, Mai SJ, Li DJ, Zeng MS, Wen JM, Zeng 
YX.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, The First Affiliated Hospital, Sun Yat-sen
University, 651 Dong-Feng Road East, Guangzhou 510080, China.

BACKGROUND: Like other herpes viruses, latent Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) infection 
can be reactivated to lytic replication. Reactivation can be achieved by
treatment with various reagents, including tetradecanoyl phorbol acetate (TPA)
and Ca2+ ionophores. Relatively little is known about the physiological factors
related to reactivation of EBV. Previous studies have demonstrated that G0/G1
cell cycle arrest is associated with EBV activation, and that hypoxic conditions 
can induce cell cycle arrest. In the present study we investigated the effect of 
hypoxia on reactivation of EBV.
OBJECTIVE AND METHODS: Hypoxic culture conditions were established and the
expression of Zta protein and the number of EBV DNA copies were measured in B95-8
cells maintained under these conditions.
RESULTS: Hypoxia treatment not only increased the expression of the EBV
immediate-early protein Zta (which mediates the switch between the latent and
lytic form of infection), but also increased the number of EBV DNA copies in
B95-8 cells.
CONCLUSIONS: EBV in latent infection can be activated to lytic infection by
hypoxia treatment.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcv.2006.06.013 
PMID: 16931136  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2500. Am J Primatol. 2006 Aug;68(8):777-88.

Arterial vascularization of the mandible and maxilla of neotropical primates.

Schilbach Pizzutto C(1), De Barros Vaz Guimarães MA, Bomfim Mariana AN.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Reprodução Animal, Faculdade de Medicina Veterinária e
Zootecnia, Universidade de São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil. cspizzutto@yahoo.com.br

The objective of the present investigation was to conduct a comparative
macroscopic study of the arterial vascularization of the mandible and maxilla of 
neotropical primates of the genera Cebus, Alouatta, Callithrix, and
Leontopithecus. After vinyl was injected into the arterial system of the head of 
each specimen, the pieces were macerated and corroded. The level of the
bifurcation of the common carotid artery into the internal and external carotids 
varied between the first and third cervical vertebrae. The external carotid
artery accounts for most of the vascularization of the facial structures. The
actual vessels responsible for the supply of this region are the sublingual,
facial, angular, lingual, submandibular, submental, inferior and superior labial,
maxillary, inferior alveolar, infraorbital, superior posterior alveolar, palatine
major, and sphenopalatine arteries. We conclude that although the arterial
vascular pattern was similar in all the genera studied, and resembles the human
pattern, there are notable variations in the vasculature of the mandible and
maxilla among these four neotropical genera.

Copyright (c) 2006 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20278 
PMID: 16929552  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

