

25. Acta Parasitol. 2022 Jan 6. doi: 10.1007/s11686-021-00498-x. [Epub ahead of
print]

Investigation of Leishmania (Viannia) braziliensis Infection in Wild Mammals in
Brazil.

Venial HJ(1), Montoya A(2), Checa R(2), Miró G(2), Uzai GJS(3), da Silva MA(4),
de Carvalho Nunes L(5), Silveira RL(6), de Carvalho ECQ(7).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Veterinary Medicine, Federal University of Espírito Santo, Alto 
Universitário 16, Guararema, Alegre, Espírito Santo, 29500-000, Brazil.
henriquevenial@hotmail.com.
(2)Department of Animal Health, Veterinary Faculty, Complutense University of
Madrid, Madrid, Spain.
(3)Postgraduate in Animal Science, State University of Santa Cruz, Ilhéus, Bahia,
Brazil.
(4)Department of Biology Sciences, Federal University of Espírito Santo, Alegre, 
Espírito Santo, Brazil.
(5)Department of Veterinary Medicine, Federal University of Espírito Santo, Alto 
Universitário 16, Guararema, Alegre, Espírito Santo, 29500-000, Brazil.
(6)Department of Morphology, Fluminense Federal University, Niterói, Rio de
Janeiro, Brazil.
(7)Laboratory of Animal Health, Department of Veterinary Medicine, State
University of the North Fluminense Darcy Ribeiro, Campos dos Goytacazes, Rio de
Janeiro, Brazil.

PURPOSE: Leishmaniasis are infectious and zoonotic diseases and present in
cutaneous and visceral forms. Cutaneous leishmaniasis is endemic and widely
distributed throughout the state of Espírito Santo, Brazil. Several cases of
cutaneous leishmaniasis in humans and dogs associated with Leishmania (Viannia)
braziliensis have been reported in the state. This study aimed to investigate the
occurrence of natural infection by Leishmania(Viannia) braziliensis in wild
mammals found dead (by trampling or natural death) in the Sooretama Biological
Reserve, Espírito Santo State.
METHODS: From January 2018 to December 2019, 60 animals were collected. Of these,
47 animals from 12 different species were analyzed. The results were demonstrated
using descriptive analysis of the observations to calculate the absolute and
relative frequencies of the data.
RESULTS: In the PCR, using specific primers for the genus Leishmania (D1, D2, and
D3) and the species Leishmania (Viannia) braziliensis (ISVB/ISVC), 4 positive
animals (8.5%) were detected: 1 Cuniculus paca (paca) (25%) and 3 Callithrix
geoffroyi (white-faced marmoset) (25%). In the histopathological analysis, the
parasitic amastigote form was not observed.
CONCLUSIONS: The natural infection, detected by PCR, by Leishmania (Viannia)
braziliensis in Cuniculus paca (paca) and Callithrix geoffroyi (white-faced
marmoset) constitutes the first report of infection of this rodent and primate
species in the literature. Despite the confirmation of Leishmania (Viannia)
braziliensis infection in rodents and primates, the role of these species in the 
transmission of this zoonosis still needs further observational studies to
identify their seasonal variation, transmissibility, infection stability, and the
effects of a given parasite on the population and/or individual.

© 2021. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to Witold Stefański Institute of
Parasitology, Polish Academy of Sciences.

DOI: 10.1007/s11686-021-00498-x 
PMID: 34988857 


26. J Exp Zool A Ecol Integr Physiol. 2022 Jan 5. doi: 10.1002/jez.2574. [Epub ahead 
of print]

Robust locomotor performance of squirrel monkeys (Saimiri boliviensis) in
response to simulated changes in support diameter and compliance.

Schapker NM(1)(2), Chadwell BA(3), Young JW(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy and Neurobiology, Northeast Ohio Medical University
(NEOMED), Rootstown, Ohio, USA.
(2)Cellular and Molecular Biology Program, School of Biomedical Sciences, Kent
State University, Kent, Ohio, USA.
(3)Department of Anatomy, Idaho College of Osteopathic Medicine (ICOM), Meridian,
Idaho, USA.

Arboreal environments require overcoming navigational challenges not typically
encountered in other terrestrial habitats. Supports are unevenly distributed and 
vary in diameter, orientation, and compliance. To better understand the
strategies that arboreal animals use to maintain stability in this environment,
laboratory researchers must endeavor to mimic those conditions. Here, we evaluate
how squirrel monkeys (Saimiri boliviensis) adjust their locomotor mechanics in
response to variation in support diameter and compliance. We used high-speed
cameras to film two juvenile female monkeys as they walked across poles of
varying diameters (5, 2.5, and 1.25 cm). Poles were mounted on either a stiff
wooden base ("stable" condition) or foam blocks ("compliant" condition). Six
force transducers embedded within the pole trackway recorded substrate reaction
forces during locomotion. We predicted that squirrel monkeys would walk more
slowly on narrow and compliant supports and adopt more "compliant" gait
mechanics, increasing stride lengths, duty factors, and an average number of
limbs gripping the support, while the decreasing center of mass height, stride
frequencies, and peak forces. We observed few significant adjustments to squirrel
monkey locomotor kinematics in response to changes in either support diameter or 
compliance, and the changes we did observe were often tempered by interactions
with locomotor speed. These results differ from a similar study of common
marmosets (i.e., Callithrix jacchus, with relatively poor grasping abilities),
where variation in diameter and compliance substantially impacted gait
kinematics. Squirrel monkeys' strong grasping apparatus, long and mobile tails,
and other adaptations for arboreal travel likely facilitate robust locomotor
performance despite substrate precarity.

© 2022 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/jez.2574 
PMID: 34985803 

