

2509. Am J Primatol. 2006 Dec;68(12):1150-60.

Social influences on the development of foraging behavior in free-living common
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Schiel N(1), Huber L.

Author information: 
(1)Department for Behavior, Neurobiology and Cognition, University of Vienna,
Vienna, Austria.

In this study we investigated the extent and pattern of social influences (i.e., 
the use of a conspecific as a model) on the foraging behavior of immature, wild
common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) as a function of the age of individuals. We
compared the foraging activities and interactions with subadult and adult group
members (older than 15 months) of young infants (1-2 months old), older infants
(3-4 months old), and juveniles (5-10 months old). In addition to measuring the
intensities of model-independent foraging (MIF) and merely paying attention to
the model's foraging activities, we examined the frequencies of three types of
model-dependent foraging (MDF): "follow the model", "manipulate the same object",
and "forage together". We found that older infants were the most attentive and
most socially-influenced foragers among the three age categories in absolute
terms, but were not more attentive than young infants given their low foraging
activity. Juveniles, in contrast, tended to have reduced overall foraging
intensity compared to infants, but showed relatively more MDF in cases in which
they observed subadult or adult models. Female models appeared to be more
attractive than male models. These findings suggest that infants are generally
more attentive to the foraging behavior of subadults and adults than juveniles,
with the latter being more influenced when they had observed a model before.
These subtle age-dependent effects of social foraging not only extend the
assumption that young primates seek information from adults, they also suggest a 
complex interplay among physical and cognitive maturation, independence, and
social dynamics.

(c) 2006 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20284 
PMID: 16900507  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2510. Reproduction. 2006 Aug;132(2):355-63.

Changes in endocrine profile and reproductive organs during puberty in the male
marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus).

Chandolia RK(1), Luetjens CM, Wistuba J, Yeung CH, Nieschlag E, Simoni M.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Reproductive Medicine of the University, Domagkstr 11, D-48129
Muenster, Germany.

Data on pubertal maturation in male marmoset, a model for human reproduction, are
scant and conflicting. We collected data on novel parameters to characterize
puberty. Twenty-five marmoset monkeys were assigned to five age groups by weeks
(wk): 21 (pre-pubertal), 43 (onset of puberty), 52 (fully pubertal), 70 (mature),
and 116 (fully adult). Serum and intratesticular testosterone and pituitary
bioactive chorionic gonadotropin (bioCG) were measured. Testicular development
was assessed by ultrasonography, histology, and flow cytometry. Three consecutive
blood samples revealed extreme fluctuations in testosterone concentrations,
suggesting an erratic secretion. Age-related changes in serum testosterone and
pituitary bioCG concentrations were observed. Intratesticular androgens (ITAs)
showed high fluctuations within groups at all ages and were high in some animals 
by 21 wk. Unexpectedly, no correlation between pituitary bioCG and serum
testosterone or ITAs was found, but these parameters significantly correlated
with testicular weight and volume. These observations were consistent a
dependence on the testis growth on bioCG. Unfortunately, the low serum levels of 
bioCG were not measurable in this study. At 43 wk, the animals reached puberty.
At 52 wk of age, animals attained maximum body and epididymal weights and
qualitatively normal spermatogenesis, but testes continued growing, reaching a
maximum of all parameters at 70 wk of age, without further major changes at the
age of 116 wk. It is concluded that (1) gonadal activation is evident at wk 21,
(2) the male marmoset reaches the pubertal threshold around 43 wk of age, attains
qualitative parameters at 52 wk, matures further to sexual maturity at 70 wk, and
(3) serum testosterone and ITAs are highly variable without any identifiable
correlation with pituitary bioCG.

DOI: 10.1530/rep.1.01186 
PMID: 16885543  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

