

2511. Eur J Neurosci. 2006 Jul;24(1):314-28.

Cholinergic modulation of response properties and orientation tuning of neurons
in primary visual cortex of anaesthetized Marmoset monkeys.

Zinke W(1), Roberts MJ, Guo K, McDonald JS, Robertson R, Thiele A.

Author information: 
(1)Psychology, Brain and Behaviour, Henry Wellcome Building, University of
Newcastle upon Tyne, Newcastle upon Tyne, NE2 HH, UK.

Cortical processing is strongly influenced by the actions of neuromodulators such
as acetylcholine (ACh). Early studies in anaesthetized cats argued that
acetylcholine can cause a sharpening of orientation tuning functions and an
improvement of the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) of neuronal responses in primary
visual cortex (V1). Recent in vitro studies have demonstrated that acetylcholine 
reduces the efficacy of feedback and intracortical connections via the activation
of muscarinic receptors, and increases the efficacy of feed-forward connections
via the activation of nicotinic receptors. If orientation tuning is mediated or
enhanced by intracortical connections, high levels of acetylcholine should
diminish orientation tuning. Here we investigate the effects of acetylcholine on 
orientation tuning and neuronal responsiveness in anaesthetized marmoset monkeys.
We found that acetylcholine caused a broadening of the orientation tuning in the 
majority of cells, while tuning functions became sharper in only a minority of
cells. Moreover, acetylcholine generally facilitated neuronal responses, but
neither improved signal-to-noise ratio, nor reduced trial-to-trial firing rate
variance systematically. Acetylcholine did however, reduce variability of spike
occurrences within spike trains. We discuss these findings in the context of
dynamic control of feed-forward and lateral/feedback connectivity by
acetylcholine.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2006.04882.x 
PMCID: PMC1888486
PMID: 16882027  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2512. Eur J Neurosci. 2006 Jul;24(1):7-19.

Evidence for the involvement of purinergic P2X receptors in outer retinal
processing.

Puthussery T(1), Yee P, Vingrys AJ, Fletcher EL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy and Cell Biology, The University of Melbourne, Parkville
3010 Victoria, Australia.

Extracellular ATP mediates fast excitatory neurotransmission in many regions of
the central nervous system through activation of P2X receptors. Although several 
P2X receptor subunits have been identified in the mammalian retina, little is
known about the functional role of these receptors in retinal signalling. The
purpose of the present study was to investigate whether purinergic P2X(7)
receptors are involved in outer retinal processing by assessing receptor
localization, degradation of extracellular ATP and the effect of functional
activation of P2X(7) receptors on the electroretinogram (ERG). Using light and
electron microscopy, we demonstrated that P2X(7) receptors are expressed
postsynaptically on horizontal cell processes as well as presynaptically on
photoreceptor synaptic terminals in both the rat and marmoset retina. Using an
enzyme cytochemical method, we showed that ecto-ATPases are active in the outer
plexiform layer of the rat retina, providing a mechanism by which purinergic
synaptic transmission can be rapidly terminated. Finally, we evaluated the role
of P2X(7) receptors in retinal function by assessing changes to the ERG response 
of rats after intravitreal delivery of the P2X(7) receptor agonist benzoyl
benzoyl ATP (BzATP). Intravitreal injection of BzATP resulted in a sustained
increase (up to 58%) in the amplitude of the photoreceptor-derived a-wave of the 
ERG. In contrast, BzATP caused a transient reduction in the rod- and cone-derived
postreceptoral responses. These results provide three lines of evidence for the
involvement of extracellular purines in outer retinal processing.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2006.04895.x 
PMID: 16882003  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

