

2512. Eur J Neurosci. 2006 Jul;24(1):7-19.

Evidence for the involvement of purinergic P2X receptors in outer retinal
processing.

Puthussery T(1), Yee P, Vingrys AJ, Fletcher EL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy and Cell Biology, The University of Melbourne, Parkville
3010 Victoria, Australia.

Extracellular ATP mediates fast excitatory neurotransmission in many regions of
the central nervous system through activation of P2X receptors. Although several 
P2X receptor subunits have been identified in the mammalian retina, little is
known about the functional role of these receptors in retinal signalling. The
purpose of the present study was to investigate whether purinergic P2X(7)
receptors are involved in outer retinal processing by assessing receptor
localization, degradation of extracellular ATP and the effect of functional
activation of P2X(7) receptors on the electroretinogram (ERG). Using light and
electron microscopy, we demonstrated that P2X(7) receptors are expressed
postsynaptically on horizontal cell processes as well as presynaptically on
photoreceptor synaptic terminals in both the rat and marmoset retina. Using an
enzyme cytochemical method, we showed that ecto-ATPases are active in the outer
plexiform layer of the rat retina, providing a mechanism by which purinergic
synaptic transmission can be rapidly terminated. Finally, we evaluated the role
of P2X(7) receptors in retinal function by assessing changes to the ERG response 
of rats after intravitreal delivery of the P2X(7) receptor agonist benzoyl
benzoyl ATP (BzATP). Intravitreal injection of BzATP resulted in a sustained
increase (up to 58%) in the amplitude of the photoreceptor-derived a-wave of the 
ERG. In contrast, BzATP caused a transient reduction in the rod- and cone-derived
postreceptoral responses. These results provide three lines of evidence for the
involvement of extracellular purines in outer retinal processing.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2006.04895.x 
PMID: 16882003  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2513. Parassitologia. 2005 Dec;47(3-4):329-33.

The controversy on the early history of Chagas disease.

Löwy I(1).

Author information: 
(1)Cermes, Paris, France. lowy@vjf.cnrs.fr

Recently historians of medicine have proposed three distinctive accounts of early
history of Chagas disease (American trypasonomiasis). According to the first the 
disease, described by the Brazilian researcher Carlos Chagas in 1909, was
"deconstructed" in the 1920s and disappeared for about twenty years, then was
recovered in the 1940s, mainly through the epidemiological studies of Emmanuel
Dias and his colleagues in Minas Gerais (Brazil). According to the second Chagas 
disease could not be "deconstructed" in the 1920s because it did not exist at
that time. Chagas observations were inaccurate and unreliable and did not define 
a new human pathology. The entity called today "Chagas disease" appeared in the
1930, principally as the result of investigations of Cecilio Romaña in Argentina.
Finally, a third view assumes that "Chagas disease" was constructed gradually
between 1909 and the 1950s through the collective efforts of numerous
Latino-American researchers. This paper juxtaposes different histories of Chagas 
disease, and argues that their divergences stems from allegiance to distinct,
partly incommensurable epistemological "thought styles". The co-existence of
divergent styles of historical investigation, this text proposes, should be
perceived as potential source of enrichment of our understanding of the past.


PMID: 16866038  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

