

2513. Parassitologia. 2005 Dec;47(3-4):329-33.

The controversy on the early history of Chagas disease.

Löwy I(1).

Author information: 
(1)Cermes, Paris, France. lowy@vjf.cnrs.fr

Recently historians of medicine have proposed three distinctive accounts of early
history of Chagas disease (American trypasonomiasis). According to the first the 
disease, described by the Brazilian researcher Carlos Chagas in 1909, was
"deconstructed" in the 1920s and disappeared for about twenty years, then was
recovered in the 1940s, mainly through the epidemiological studies of Emmanuel
Dias and his colleagues in Minas Gerais (Brazil). According to the second Chagas 
disease could not be "deconstructed" in the 1920s because it did not exist at
that time. Chagas observations were inaccurate and unreliable and did not define 
a new human pathology. The entity called today "Chagas disease" appeared in the
1930, principally as the result of investigations of Cecilio Romaña in Argentina.
Finally, a third view assumes that "Chagas disease" was constructed gradually
between 1909 and the 1950s through the collective efforts of numerous
Latino-American researchers. This paper juxtaposes different histories of Chagas 
disease, and argues that their divergences stems from allegiance to distinct,
partly incommensurable epistemological "thought styles". The co-existence of
divergent styles of historical investigation, this text proposes, should be
perceived as potential source of enrichment of our understanding of the past.


PMID: 16866038  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2514. Expert Opin Drug Metab Toxicol. 2006 Jun;2(3):345-9.

Use of nontraditional animals for evaluation of pharmaceutical products.

Jacobs A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Drug Evaluation and Research, US Food and Drug Administration,
Silver Spring, Maryland, USA. abigail.jacobs@fda.hhs.gov

Although the International Conference on Harmonization Guideline ICH M3 indicates
the use of nonrodents for some studies of pharmaceutical products, the specific
nonrodent species is not specified. Dogs are used most frequently; however, there
may be reasons why dogs are not the best model for a particular drug. Minipigs
are being used increasingly for evaluation of toxicity, especially for dermally
applied drugs, and for various efficacy models. Hamsters may be used for the
evaluation of intraoral drugs and for carcinogenicity studies. Less commonly,
pharmaceutical manufacturers may choose on their own to use marmosets, when a
nonhuman primate is considered critical to evaluation, or to use ferrets for
specific purposes. When nontraditional species are used, there may be less
historical information available and unique issues of their care, and differences
in physiology and anatomy and susceptibility to infection need to be understood. 
Nonmammalian test species, such as zebrafish and Caenorhabditis elegans may be
used by drug sponsors in screening assays, but are not yet ready for use in
pivotal toxicology studies because of the difficulty in extrapolating to
mammalian species. Use of nontraditional animal species may be proposed by a drug
sponsor to a reviewing division with supporting data and reasons for using a
particular species.

DOI: 10.1517/17425255.2.3.345 
PMID: 16863438  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

