

2517. J Immunol. 2006 Aug 1;177(3):1427-33.

EBV-specific CD4+ T cell clones exhibit vigorous allogeneic responses.

Landais E(1), Morice A, Long HM, Haigh TA, Charreau B, Bonneville M, Taylor GS,
Houssaint E.

Author information: 
(1)Institut National de la Santé et de la Recherche Médicale, Unité 601, Institut
de Biologie, Nantes, France.

Alloreactive T cells play a key role in mediating graft-vs-host disease and
allograft rejection, and recent data suggest that most T cell alloreactivity
resides within the CD4 T cell subset. Particularly, T cell responses to
herpesvirus can shape the alloreactive repertoire and influence transplantation
outcomes. In this study, we describe six distinct EBV-specific CD4(+) T cell
clones that cross-reacted with EBV-transformed lymphoblastoid cell lines (LCLs), 
dendritic cells, and endothelial cells expressing MHC class II alleles commonly
found in the population. Allorecognition showed exquisite MHC specificity. These 
CD4(+) T cell clones efficiently killed dendritic cells or LCLs expressing the
cross-reactive allogeneic MHC class II molecules, whereas they did not kill
autologous LCLs. Endothelial cells expressing the proper allogeneic MHC molecules
were poorly killed, but they induced high-level TNF-alpha production by the
EBV-specific CD4(+) T cell clones. As already proposed, the strong alloreactivity
toward LCLs suggest that these cells could be used for selective depletion of
alloreactive T cells.

DOI: 10.4049/jimmunol.177.3.1427 
PMID: 16849448  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2518. Am J Primatol. 2006 Aug;68(8):812-24.

Serotonin function is associated with behavioral response to a novel conspecific 
in marmosets.

Kinnally EL(1), Jensen HA, Ewing JH, French JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska-Omaha, Omaha, Nebraska, USA. 
Elkinnally@ucdavis.edu

The function of the central nervous system neurotransmitter serotonin (5-HT)
contributes to individual differences in impulsive behavior in humans and
nonhuman primates. We investigated the relationship between 5-HT function and
behavioral responses to a novel social scenario in marmosets. In the first study,
marmosets (n=10) were treated orally with fluoxetine HCl (FLX) or vehicle for two
trial periods and exposed to a novel conspecific for a 20-min trial following
each treatment. Levels of behavioral inhibition in response to a novel
conspecific were quantified. The animals exhibited less inhibition toward the
novel conspecific following the 14-day FLX treatment than they did following the 
vehicle treatment. In the second study we first characterized the parameters of
the marmoset peripheral 5-HT system and further assessed the relationship between
natural variation in peripheral 5-HT and 5-HIAA levels with behavioral inhibition
in response to a novel conspecific (n=14). Individual peripheral 5-HT and 5-HIAA 
levels were higher in animals that exhibited more inhibition in response toward
the stranger. We conclude that serotonergic influences play a role in behavioral 
response to a novel conspecific in marmosets.

Copyright (c) 2006 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20281 
PMID: 16847970  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

