

2520. Pharmacol Biochem Behav. 2006 Jun;84(2):282-93. Epub 2006 Jul 7.

Multiple vaccine and pyridostigmine interactions: effects on EEG and sleep in the
common marmoset.

Williams KE(1), Mann TM, Chamberlain S, Smith A, Wilson S, Griffiths GD, Bowditch
AP, Scott EA, Pearce PC.

Author information: 
(1)Dstl Biomedical Sciences Department, Porton Down, Salisbury, SP4 0JQ, UK.
KEWILLIAMS@dstl.gov.uk

Following active service during the 1990/1991 Gulf conflict, a number of UK and
US veterans presented with a diverse range of symptoms, collectively known as
Gulf Veterans' Illnesses (GVI). The administration of vaccines and/or the
pretreatment against possible nerve agent poisoning, pyridostigmine bromide (PB),
given to Armed Forces personnel during the Gulf conflict has been implicated as a
possible factor in the aetiology of these illnesses. The possibility that
long-term health effects may result from the administration of these vaccines
(anthrax, pertussis, plague, yellow fever, polio, typhoid, tetanus, hepatitis B, 
meningococcal meningitis and cholera) and/or PB, have been investigated using a
non-human primate model, the common marmoset. This paper reports the results from
two aspects of the study, brain electrical activity (EEG, collected during
performance of a touchscreen mediated discrimination task) and sleep. There were 
no marked long-term changes in EEG or sleep patterns that could be attributed to 
vaccines and/or PB administration. The changes that were detected were
predominantly time related and independent of treatment. Where statistical
differences were detected between treatments, the magnitudes of the difference
were relatively minor and therefore not regarded as having long term biological
significance.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pbb.2006.05.011 
PMID: 16828151  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2521. Magn Reson Imaging. 2006 Jul;24(6):707-14. Epub 2006 May 26.

Imaging brain activity in conscious monkeys following oral MDMA ("ecstasy").

Brevard ME(1), Meyer JS, Harder JA, Ferris CF.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Comparative Neuroimaging, University of Massachusetts Medical
School, Worcester, MA 01655, USA. mathew.brevard@umassmed.edu

Recreational use of 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA;"ecstasy") poses
worldwide potential health problems. Clinical studies show that repeated exposure
to low oral doses of MDMA has toxic effects on the brain, altering cognitive and 
psychosocial behavior. Functional magnetic resonance imaging in conscious
marmoset monkeys was used to evaluate the sensitivity of the brain to an oral
dose of MDMA (1 mg/kg). Following MDMA administration, the midbrain raphe nuclei 
and substantia nigra, major sources of serotonin and dopamine, were activated as 
were the hippocampus, hypothalamus and amygdala. The corticostriatal circuit of
dorsal thalamus, sensorimotor cortex and basal ganglia showed a robust, coherent 
activation pattern. Two key reward areas, the nucleus accumbens and prefrontal
cortex, and most other cortical regions showed little activation. The visual
cortex, however, showed intense activation without applied visual stimuli. These 
data identify brain areas and functional circuits sensitive to a recreational
dose of MDMA, some of which may be vulnerable to long-term intermittent exposure 
to this drug.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mri.2006.03.010 
PMID: 16824965  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

