

2521. Magn Reson Imaging. 2006 Jul;24(6):707-14. Epub 2006 May 26.

Imaging brain activity in conscious monkeys following oral MDMA ("ecstasy").

Brevard ME(1), Meyer JS, Harder JA, Ferris CF.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Comparative Neuroimaging, University of Massachusetts Medical
School, Worcester, MA 01655, USA. mathew.brevard@umassmed.edu

Recreational use of 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA;"ecstasy") poses
worldwide potential health problems. Clinical studies show that repeated exposure
to low oral doses of MDMA has toxic effects on the brain, altering cognitive and 
psychosocial behavior. Functional magnetic resonance imaging in conscious
marmoset monkeys was used to evaluate the sensitivity of the brain to an oral
dose of MDMA (1 mg/kg). Following MDMA administration, the midbrain raphe nuclei 
and substantia nigra, major sources of serotonin and dopamine, were activated as 
were the hippocampus, hypothalamus and amygdala. The corticostriatal circuit of
dorsal thalamus, sensorimotor cortex and basal ganglia showed a robust, coherent 
activation pattern. Two key reward areas, the nucleus accumbens and prefrontal
cortex, and most other cortical regions showed little activation. The visual
cortex, however, showed intense activation without applied visual stimuli. These 
data identify brain areas and functional circuits sensitive to a recreational
dose of MDMA, some of which may be vulnerable to long-term intermittent exposure 
to this drug.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mri.2006.03.010 
PMID: 16824965  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2522. Eur J Neurosci. 2006 Jun;23(12):3337-45.

Ipsilateral corticocortical projections to the primary and middle temporal visual
areas of the primate cerebral cortex: area-specific variations in the morphology 
of connectionally identified pyramidal cells.

Elston GN(1), Rosa MG.

Author information: 
(1)Vision, Touch and Hearing Research Centre, School of Biomedical Sciences, The 
University of Queensland, Australia.

We quantified the morphology of over 350 pyramidal neurons with identified
ipsilateral corticocortical projections to the primary (V1) and middle temporal
(MT) visual areas of the marmoset monkey, following intracellular injection of
Lucifer Yellow into retrogradely labelled cells. Paralleling the results of
studies in which randomly sampled pyramidal cells were injected, we found that
the size of the basal dendritic tree of connectionally identified cells differed 
between cortical areas, as did the branching complexity and spine density. We
found no systematic relationship between dendritic tree structure and axon target
or length. Instead, the size of the basal dendritic tree increased roughly in
relation to increasing distance from the occipital pole, irrespective of the
length of the connection or the cortical layer in which the neurons were located.
For example, cells in the second visual area had some of the smallest and least
complex dendritic trees irrespective of whether they projected to V1 or MT, while
those in the dorsolateral area (DL) were among the largest and most complex. We
also observed that systematic differences in spine number were more marked among 
V1-projecting cells than MT-projecting cells. These data demonstrate that the
previously documented systematic differences in pyramidal cell morphology between
areas cannot simply be attributed to variable proportions of neurons projecting
to different targets, in the various areas. Moreover, they suggest that
mechanisms intrinsic to the area in which neurons are located are strong
determinants of basal dendritic field structure.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2006.04847.x 
PMID: 16820023  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

