

2527. Pharmacol Biochem Behav. 2006 Jun;84(2):207-18. Epub 2006 Jun 27.

Multiple vaccine and pyridostigmine interactions: effects on cognition, muscle
function and health outcomes in marmosets.

Stevens D(1), Scott EA, Bowditch AP, Griffiths GD, Pearce PC.

Author information: 
(1)Dstl Biomedical Sciences, Porton Down, Salisbury, SP4 0JQ, UK.
DSTEVENS@dstl.gov.uk

Following active service during the 1990/1991 Gulf Conflict, a number of UK and
US veterans presented with a diverse range of symptoms, collectively known as
Gulf Veterans Illnesses (GVI). The administration of vaccines and/or the
pretreatment against possible nerve agent poisoning, pyridostigmine bromide (PB),
given to armed forces personnel during the Gulf Conflict has been implicated as a
possible factor in the aetiology of these illnesses. The possibility that
long-term health effects may result from the administration of these vaccines
(anthrax, pertussis, plague, yellow fever, polio, typhoid, tetanus, hepatitis B, 
meningococcal meningitis and cholera) and/or PB, have been investigated using a
non-human primate model, the common marmoset. This paper reports the results from
three aspects of the study, cognitive behaviour (performance of a touchscreen
mediated discrimination task), muscle function (performance of a simple strength 
test) and general health. There were no marked long-term changes in cognition,
muscle function or health that could be attributed to vaccines and/or PB
administration. Statistical differences related to treatments were only observed 
in two aspects of cognition and one of clinical chemistry. These changes were
transient in nature and their magnitude were minor and, in consequence, was not
regarded as having long-term biological significance.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pbb.2006.04.020 
PMID: 16806443  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2528. Gen Comp Endocrinol. 2006 Oct;149(1):90-9. Epub 2006 Jun 27.

Social suppression of cortisol in female marmosets: role of luteinizing
hormone/chorionic gonadotropin.

Saltzman W(1), Hogan BK, Horman BM, Abbott DH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of California-Riverside, Riverside, CA
92521, USA. saltzman@ucr.edu

Behaviorally subordinate female common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) undergo
suppression of ovulation and chronic reductions in basal plasma cortisol
concentrations. Indirect evidence suggests that hypophyseal chorionic
gonadotropin (CG; the major pituitary luteinizing gonadotropin in marmosets) may 
elevate cortisol concentrations in female marmosets, and therefore that social
suppression of CG may contribute to diminution of cortisol in subordinates. To
test this hypothesis, we determined whether pharmacological inhibition of
pituitary CG release decreases basal and adrenocorticotropin (ACTH)-stimulated
cortisol secretion. We characterized cortisol and reproductive hormone
concentrations in six ovary-intact and six ovariectomized marmosets during
long-term treatment with leuprolide acetate, a gonadotropin-releasing hormone
(GnRH) agonist, and vehicle. Leuprolide suppressed basal plasma CG
concentrations, abolished the CG response to exogenous GnRH, and, in intact
animals, blocked ovarian cyclicity. During treatment with vehicle, plasma
cortisol concentrations were elevated during the periovulatory phase in intact
females, compared to the follicular phase, the luteal phase, and ovariectomized
females. Leuprolide suppressed basal cortisol concentrations of intact females as
compared to the periovulatory phase, but did not affect basal cortisol in
ovariectomized animals and did not alter responses to exogenous ACTH. These
findings suggest that elevations in circulating CG concentrations are associated 
with elevated cortisol concentrations in female marmosets, and that this
relationship requires simultaneous increases in ovarian hormones that occur only 
during the periovulatory period. Thus, suppression of CG release in anovulatory
subordinate females may not play an important role in socially induced diminution
of cortisol.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ygcen.2006.05.007 
PMID: 16806216  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

