

2531. Clin Neuropharmacol. 2006 May-Jun;29(3):112-25.

Switching from levodopa to the long-acting dopamine D2/D3 agonist piribedil
reduces the expression of dyskinesia while maintaining effective motor activity
in MPTP-treated primates.

Smith LA(1), Jackson MJ, Johnston L, Kuoppamaki M, Rose S, Al-Barghouthy G, Del
Signore S, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Diseases Research Group, School of Biomedical and Health
Sciences, King's College, London, UK.

Comment in
    Clin Neuropharmacol. 2007 Jan-Feb;30(1):60-2.

BACKGROUND: The control of motor complications following dopaminergic medication 
in late-stage Parkinson disease remains problematic.
OBJECTIVE: We now investigate the potential of oral administration of the
long-acting dopamine D2/D3 agonist piribedil to decrease the expression of
dyskinesia induced by prior exposure to levodopa in
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine hydrochloride (MPTP)-treated
primates.
METHODS: MPTP-treated common marmosets were treated with equieffective doses of
levodopa (10.0-12.5 mg/kg PO, twice daily) or piribedil (3.0-4.0 mg/kg PO, once
daily) for 30 days and then switched to the alternative treatment for a further
35 days.
RESULTS: Levodopa administration markedly improved motor function, but dyskinesia
rapidly appeared and intensified as treatment progressed. Administration of
piribedil produced a similar reversal of MPTP-induced motor deficits but with
comparatively mild dyskinesia. On switching from levodopa to piribedil, the
intensity of dyskinesia decreased without altering the improvement in motor
deficits. However, on switching from piribedil to levodopa, the rapid increase in
dyskinesia despite the improvement in motor function being maintained suggests
that piribedil also primes for but does not markedly express dyskinesia.
CONCLUSION: The study confirms the low dyskinesia expression resulting from
piribedil treatment compared with an equieffective dose of levodopa. Importantly,
the results show that switching from levodopa to piribedil rapidly results in a
sustained decrease in dyskinesia intensity.

DOI: 10.1097/01.WNF.0000220818.71231.DF 
PMID: 16772809  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2532. Brain Pathol. 2006 Apr;16(2):117-23.

Differential macrophage/microglia activation in neocortical EAE lesions in the
marmoset monkey.

Merkler D(1), Böscke R, Schmelting B, Czéh B, Fuchs E, Brück W, Stadelmann C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuropathology, Georg-August University Göttingen, Göttingen,
Germany. merkler@med.uni-goettingen.de

Recent studies revealed an important involvement of the cerebral cortex in
multiple sclerosis (MS) patients. Cortical lesions in MS were reported to be less
inflammatory and to show less structural damage than white matter lesions. Animal
models reflecting the histopathological hallmarks of cortical demyelinated
lesions in MS are sparse. Induction of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis 
(EAE) in the common marmoset has turned out to be an attractive non-human-primate
model for MS. In the present study we investigated the presence and detailed
cellular composition of cortical inflammatory demyelinating pathology in the
common marmoset upon immunization with myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG).
Extensive cortical demyelination reflecting the topographically distinct cortical
lesion types in MS patients was revealed by immunohistochemistry for myelin basic
protein (MBP). We explored the density of T- and B-lymphocytes, MHC-II expressing
macrophages/microglia cells and early activated macrophages (MRP14) at
perivascular and parenchymal lesions sites in neocortex and subcortical white
matter. Despite a similar density of perivascular inflammatory infiltrates in the
demyelinated neocortex, a considerable lower fraction of macrophages was found to
express MRP14 in the neocortex indicating a different activation pattern in
cortical compared with white matter lesions. Furthermore, cortical EAE lesions in
marmoset monkeys revealed immunoglobulin leakage and complement component C9
deposition in intracortical but not subpial demyelination. Our findings indicate 
that the inflammatory response, especially macrophage and microglia activation,
may be regulated differently in gray matter areas in primate brain.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1750-3639.2006.00004.x 
PMCID: PMC8095787
PMID: 16768751  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

