

2532. Brain Pathol. 2006 Apr;16(2):117-23.

Differential macrophage/microglia activation in neocortical EAE lesions in the
marmoset monkey.

Merkler D(1), Böscke R, Schmelting B, Czéh B, Fuchs E, Brück W, Stadelmann C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuropathology, Georg-August University Göttingen, Göttingen,
Germany. merkler@med.uni-goettingen.de

Recent studies revealed an important involvement of the cerebral cortex in
multiple sclerosis (MS) patients. Cortical lesions in MS were reported to be less
inflammatory and to show less structural damage than white matter lesions. Animal
models reflecting the histopathological hallmarks of cortical demyelinated
lesions in MS are sparse. Induction of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis 
(EAE) in the common marmoset has turned out to be an attractive non-human-primate
model for MS. In the present study we investigated the presence and detailed
cellular composition of cortical inflammatory demyelinating pathology in the
common marmoset upon immunization with myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG).
Extensive cortical demyelination reflecting the topographically distinct cortical
lesion types in MS patients was revealed by immunohistochemistry for myelin basic
protein (MBP). We explored the density of T- and B-lymphocytes, MHC-II expressing
macrophages/microglia cells and early activated macrophages (MRP14) at
perivascular and parenchymal lesions sites in neocortex and subcortical white
matter. Despite a similar density of perivascular inflammatory infiltrates in the
demyelinated neocortex, a considerable lower fraction of macrophages was found to
express MRP14 in the neocortex indicating a different activation pattern in
cortical compared with white matter lesions. Furthermore, cortical EAE lesions in
marmoset monkeys revealed immunoglobulin leakage and complement component C9
deposition in intracortical but not subpial demyelination. Our findings indicate 
that the inflammatory response, especially macrophage and microglia activation,
may be regulated differently in gray matter areas in primate brain.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1750-3639.2006.00004.x 
PMCID: PMC8095787
PMID: 16768751  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2533. J Med Primatol. 2006 Jun;35(3):155-64.

Marmoset glutathione peroxidases: cDNA sequences, molecular evolution, and gene
expression.

Atanasova S(1), von Ahsen N, Schlumbohm C, Wieland E, Oellerich M, Armstrong V.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Chemistry, Georg-August University, Goettingen,
Germany.

BACKGROUND: Dysfunction of the cellular antioxidant system and accumulation of
reactive oxygen species are involved in the pathophysiology of diseases such as
cardiovascular disease, neurodegenerative disorders, tumors, male infertility and
aging. Two gluthathione peroxidases play key roles in the cellular protection
against oxidative damage. Glutathione peroxidase (GPx-1) removes cytosolic
hydroperoxides while phospholipid-hydroperoxide glutathione peroxidase (GPx-4) is
a unique enzyme that reduces phospholipid peroxides in membranes.
METHODS: We cloned and sequenced the full-length cDNA for GPx-1 (GenBank:
AY966403) and GPx-4 (GenBank: AY966404) from the common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus) in order to create a suitable model for studying human diseases related 
with oxidative stress.
RESULTS: The cDNAs encode a 202 amino acid protein for GPx-1 and a 197 amino acid
protein for GPx-4. Both proteins include selenocysteine (Sec, in Gpx-1 at
position 48; in GPx-4 at position 73) and showed high homology (>90%) with other 
mammalian GPxs. The relative levels of mRNA expression for GPx-1 and GPx-4 were
determined in different marmoset tissues by quantitative real-time reverse
transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction using transcription elongation factor-2
as a reference gene. GPx-1 showed increased levels of expression in the liver,
heart and kidney while the highest mRNA levels for GPx-4 were detected in the
testis, followed by the liver, lung, kidney and spinal cord.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings will be of value for studies designed to assess the
role of glutathione peroxidases in non-human primate models for a variety of
diseases in which increased oxidative stress has been implicated.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0684.2006.00158.x 
PMID: 16764674  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

