

2533. J Med Primatol. 2006 Jun;35(3):155-64.

Marmoset glutathione peroxidases: cDNA sequences, molecular evolution, and gene
expression.

Atanasova S(1), von Ahsen N, Schlumbohm C, Wieland E, Oellerich M, Armstrong V.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Chemistry, Georg-August University, Goettingen,
Germany.

BACKGROUND: Dysfunction of the cellular antioxidant system and accumulation of
reactive oxygen species are involved in the pathophysiology of diseases such as
cardiovascular disease, neurodegenerative disorders, tumors, male infertility and
aging. Two gluthathione peroxidases play key roles in the cellular protection
against oxidative damage. Glutathione peroxidase (GPx-1) removes cytosolic
hydroperoxides while phospholipid-hydroperoxide glutathione peroxidase (GPx-4) is
a unique enzyme that reduces phospholipid peroxides in membranes.
METHODS: We cloned and sequenced the full-length cDNA for GPx-1 (GenBank:
AY966403) and GPx-4 (GenBank: AY966404) from the common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus) in order to create a suitable model for studying human diseases related 
with oxidative stress.
RESULTS: The cDNAs encode a 202 amino acid protein for GPx-1 and a 197 amino acid
protein for GPx-4. Both proteins include selenocysteine (Sec, in Gpx-1 at
position 48; in GPx-4 at position 73) and showed high homology (>90%) with other 
mammalian GPxs. The relative levels of mRNA expression for GPx-1 and GPx-4 were
determined in different marmoset tissues by quantitative real-time reverse
transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction using transcription elongation factor-2
as a reference gene. GPx-1 showed increased levels of expression in the liver,
heart and kidney while the highest mRNA levels for GPx-4 were detected in the
testis, followed by the liver, lung, kidney and spinal cord.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings will be of value for studies designed to assess the
role of glutathione peroxidases in non-human primate models for a variety of
diseases in which increased oxidative stress has been implicated.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0684.2006.00158.x 
PMID: 16764674  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2534. Antivir Ther. 2006;11(3):289-95.

Amantadine inhibits the function of an ion channel encoded by GB virus B, but
fails to inhibit virus replication.

Premkumar A(1), Dong X, Haqshenas G, Gage PW, Gowans EJ.

Author information: 
(1)John Curtin School of Medical Research, Australian National University,
Canberra ACT, Australia.

A chemically synthesized peptide representing the C-terminal subunit (p13-C) of
the p13 protein of GB virus B (GBV-B), the most closely related virus to
hepatitis C virus (HCV) showed ion channel activity in artificial lipid bilayers.
The channels had a variable conductance and were more permeable to potassium ions
than to chloride ions. Amantadine but not hexamethylene amiloride (HMA) inhibited
the ion channel function of p13-C in the lipid membranes. However, neither agent 
was able to inhibit the replication and secretion of GBV-B from virus-infected
cultured marmoset hepatocytes, which were harvested from a marmoset that was
infected in vivo or inhibit replication after in vitro infection of naive
hepatocytes. These data suggest that the GBV-B ion channel, contrary to the data 
derived from the lipid membranes, is either resistant to amantadine or that virus
replication and secretion are independent of ion channel function. As the p7
protein of HCV also has ion channel activity that is apparently resistant to
amantadine in vivo, the former possibility is most likely. Ion channels are
likely to have an important role in the life cycle of many viruses and compounds 
that block these channels may prove to be useful antiviral agents.


PMID: 16759044  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

