

2534. Antivir Ther. 2006;11(3):289-95.

Amantadine inhibits the function of an ion channel encoded by GB virus B, but
fails to inhibit virus replication.

Premkumar A(1), Dong X, Haqshenas G, Gage PW, Gowans EJ.

Author information: 
(1)John Curtin School of Medical Research, Australian National University,
Canberra ACT, Australia.

A chemically synthesized peptide representing the C-terminal subunit (p13-C) of
the p13 protein of GB virus B (GBV-B), the most closely related virus to
hepatitis C virus (HCV) showed ion channel activity in artificial lipid bilayers.
The channels had a variable conductance and were more permeable to potassium ions
than to chloride ions. Amantadine but not hexamethylene amiloride (HMA) inhibited
the ion channel function of p13-C in the lipid membranes. However, neither agent 
was able to inhibit the replication and secretion of GBV-B from virus-infected
cultured marmoset hepatocytes, which were harvested from a marmoset that was
infected in vivo or inhibit replication after in vitro infection of naive
hepatocytes. These data suggest that the GBV-B ion channel, contrary to the data 
derived from the lipid membranes, is either resistant to amantadine or that virus
replication and secretion are independent of ion channel function. As the p7
protein of HCV also has ion channel activity that is apparently resistant to
amantadine in vivo, the former possibility is most likely. Ion channels are
likely to have an important role in the life cycle of many viruses and compounds 
that block these channels may prove to be useful antiviral agents.


PMID: 16759044  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2535. J Neuroimmunol. 2006 Jul;176(1-2):39-50. Epub 2006 Jun 5.

Differential expression of major histocompatibility complex class I molecules in 
the brain of a New World monkey, the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Rölleke U(1), Flügge G, Plehm S, Schlumbohm C, Armstrong VW, Dressel R,
Uchanska-Ziegler B, Ziegler A, Fuchs E, Czéh B, Walter L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Primate Genetics, German Primate Center, Göttingen, Germany.

It has been supposed that central nervous neurons do not express MHC class I
molecules. However, recent studies clearly demonstrated functional MHC class I
expression in the rodent brain. In the present study, we have extended these
studies and investigated the presence of MHC class I transcripts and proteins in 
the brain of a non-human primate species, the common marmoset monkey (Callithrix 
jacchus). Using in-situ hybridization, we found strong expression of MHC class I 
transcripts in neocortex, hippocampal formation, substantia nigra and nucleus
ruber. In-situ hybridization with emulsion autoradiography demonstrated MHC class
I mRNA in distinct pyramidal neurons of cortex and hippocampus, in granule
neurons of the dentate gyrus, in dopaminergic neurons of substantia nigra and in 
motor neurons of nucleus ruber. Immunocytochemistry confirmed MHC class I protein
expression in these neurons. Two monoclonal antibodies, MRC-Ox18 and HB115,
reacted differentially with MHC class I proteins on neuronal and non-neuronal
cells, respectively. Interestingly, in marmoset monkeys that were
immunosuppressed with FK506 (tacrolimus), expression of neuronal MHC class I
proteins, which could be detected with MRC-Ox18, was either very low (neocortex, 
nucleus ruber, substantia nigra) or absent (hippocampus). In contrast, class I
expression in endothelial cells, which was detected by HB115, was not affected by
immunosuppression. Our data show that selected neurons in the brain of a
non-human primate express MHC class I molecules and that this expression can be
modulated by immunosuppression.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jneuroim.2006.04.015 
PMID: 16750573  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

