

2535. J Neuroimmunol. 2006 Jul;176(1-2):39-50. Epub 2006 Jun 5.

Differential expression of major histocompatibility complex class I molecules in 
the brain of a New World monkey, the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Rölleke U(1), Flügge G, Plehm S, Schlumbohm C, Armstrong VW, Dressel R,
Uchanska-Ziegler B, Ziegler A, Fuchs E, Czéh B, Walter L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Primate Genetics, German Primate Center, Göttingen, Germany.

It has been supposed that central nervous neurons do not express MHC class I
molecules. However, recent studies clearly demonstrated functional MHC class I
expression in the rodent brain. In the present study, we have extended these
studies and investigated the presence of MHC class I transcripts and proteins in 
the brain of a non-human primate species, the common marmoset monkey (Callithrix 
jacchus). Using in-situ hybridization, we found strong expression of MHC class I 
transcripts in neocortex, hippocampal formation, substantia nigra and nucleus
ruber. In-situ hybridization with emulsion autoradiography demonstrated MHC class
I mRNA in distinct pyramidal neurons of cortex and hippocampus, in granule
neurons of the dentate gyrus, in dopaminergic neurons of substantia nigra and in 
motor neurons of nucleus ruber. Immunocytochemistry confirmed MHC class I protein
expression in these neurons. Two monoclonal antibodies, MRC-Ox18 and HB115,
reacted differentially with MHC class I proteins on neuronal and non-neuronal
cells, respectively. Interestingly, in marmoset monkeys that were
immunosuppressed with FK506 (tacrolimus), expression of neuronal MHC class I
proteins, which could be detected with MRC-Ox18, was either very low (neocortex, 
nucleus ruber, substantia nigra) or absent (hippocampus). In contrast, class I
expression in endothelial cells, which was detected by HB115, was not affected by
immunosuppression. Our data show that selected neurons in the brain of a
non-human primate express MHC class I molecules and that this expression can be
modulated by immunosuppression.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jneuroim.2006.04.015 
PMID: 16750573  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2536. J Cereb Blood Flow Metab. 2007 Feb;27(2):293-303. Epub 2006 May 24.

From homogeneous to fractal normal and tumorous microvascular networks in the
brain.

Risser L(1), Plouraboué F, Steyer A, Cloetens P, Le Duc G, Fonta C.

Author information: 
(1)IMFT UMR5502 CNRS-INPT/UPS, Toulouse, France.

We studied normal and tumorous three-dimensional (3D) microvascular networks in
primate and rat brain. Tissues were prepared following a new preparation
technique intended for high-resolution synchrotron tomography of microvascular
networks. The resulting 3D images with a spatial resolution of less than the
minimum capillary diameter permit a complete description of the entire vascular
network for volumes as large as tens of cubic millimeters. The structural
properties of the vascular networks were investigated by several multiscale
methods such as fractal and power-spectrum analysis. These investigations gave a 
new coherent picture of normal and pathological complex vascular structures. They
showed that normal cortical vascular networks have scale-invariant fractal
properties on a small scale from 1.4 mum up to 40 to 65 mum. Above this
threshold, vascular networks can be considered as homogeneous. Tumor vascular
networks show similar characteristics, but the validity range of the fractal
regime extend to much larger spatial dimensions. These 3D results shed new light 
on previous two dimensional analyses giving for the first time a direct
measurement of vascular modules associated with vessel-tissue surface exchange.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.jcbfm.9600332 
PMID: 16736048  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

