

2540. Arch Toxicol. 2006 Nov;80(11):719-31. Epub 2006 May 23.

A physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PB/PK) model for multiple exposure
routes of soman in multiple species.

Sweeney RE(1), Langenberg JP, Maxwell DM.

Author information: 
(1)RESECO Research Engineering Consultants, Nottingham, PA 19362, USA.
Richard.Sweeney@us.army.mil

A physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PB/PK) model has been developed in
advanced computer simulation language (ACSL) to describe blood and tissue
concentration-time profiles of the C(+/-)P(-) stereoisomers of soman after
inhalation, subcutaneous and intravenous exposures at low (0.8-1.0 x LD(50)),
medium (2-3 x LD(50)) and high (6 x LD(50)) levels of soman challenge in three
species (rat, guinea pig, marmoset). Allometric formulae were used to compute the
compartment volumes, blood flow rates, tidal volume and respiratory rate based
upon total animal weight. Blood/tissue partition coefficients for soman, initial 
carboxylesterase and acetylcholinesterase levels and the rate constants for
interactions between soman and these enzymes were species-dependent and were
obtained from in vitro measurements reported in the literature. The model
incorporated arterial and venous blood, lung, kidney, liver, richly perfused,
poorly perfused and fat tissue compartments as well as subcutaneous and nasal
exposure site compartments. First-order absorption from linearly filled soman
deposits into metabolizing exposure site compartments was employed to model
subcutaneous and inhalation exposures. The model was validated by comparing the
predicted and observed values for C(+/-)P(-)-soman in arterial blood at various
times following exposure and by regression analysis. Sensitivity analysis was
used to determine the effects of perturbations in the model parameters on the
time-course of arterial C(-)P(-)-soman concentrations for different exposure
routes. In our evaluation of 28 datasets, predicted values were generally within 
95% confidence limits of the observed values, and regression coefficients
comparing predicted and observed data were greater than 0.85 for 95% of the
intravenous and subcutaneous datasets and 25% of the inhalation datasets. We
conclude that the model predicts the soman toxicokinetics for doses >or=1 x
LD(50) for intravenous and subcutaneous exposures and inhalation exposures of 8
min or less sufficiently well to allow its use in the modeling of bioscavenger
protection.

DOI: 10.1007/s00204-006-0114-0 
PMID: 16718492  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2541. Am J Primatol. 2006 Jun;68(6):585-604.

Individual olfactory signatures in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Smith T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Chester, Chester, United
Kingdom. Teressa.smith@chester.ac.uk

Individual discrimination is likely a prerequisite for most primate social
interactions. Olfactory cues are one set of stimuli used by primates to
discriminate between individuals. Despite the importance of these olfactory
signatures, there is little published research assessing the existence or
function of individually unique odors among primates. This review systematically 
assesses behavioral and biochemical aspects of individual odors in a New World
primate, the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). There are three objectives to 
this review: First, behavioral evidence for odors unique to the individual is
evaluated in the context of results demonstrating that marmosets are able to
discriminate between the scents from a familiar and a novel individual
conspecific in behavioral bioassays under a variety of conditions. Second,
biochemical evidence for individual scent signatures is debated with reference to
studies examining qualitative and quantitative differences between the chemical
compositions of scent-mark pools from adult females. A combined gas
chromatography (GC) and mass spectrometry (MS) analysis demonstrated that each
female had a unique ratio of highly volatile chemicals in the scent mark that
could affect individual discrimination. Finally, the possible adaptive
significance of individual odors in marmosets is debated. Individual odors may
play a key role in regulating both female intrasexual competition and intersexual
communication by providing a basis for the assessment of individual quality.

Copyright 2006 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20254 
PMID: 16715508  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

