

2541. Am J Primatol. 2006 Jun;68(6):585-604.

Individual olfactory signatures in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Smith T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Chester, Chester, United
Kingdom. Teressa.smith@chester.ac.uk

Individual discrimination is likely a prerequisite for most primate social
interactions. Olfactory cues are one set of stimuli used by primates to
discriminate between individuals. Despite the importance of these olfactory
signatures, there is little published research assessing the existence or
function of individually unique odors among primates. This review systematically 
assesses behavioral and biochemical aspects of individual odors in a New World
primate, the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). There are three objectives to 
this review: First, behavioral evidence for odors unique to the individual is
evaluated in the context of results demonstrating that marmosets are able to
discriminate between the scents from a familiar and a novel individual
conspecific in behavioral bioassays under a variety of conditions. Second,
biochemical evidence for individual scent signatures is debated with reference to
studies examining qualitative and quantitative differences between the chemical
compositions of scent-mark pools from adult females. A combined gas
chromatography (GC) and mass spectrometry (MS) analysis demonstrated that each
female had a unique ratio of highly volatile chemicals in the scent mark that
could affect individual discrimination. Finally, the possible adaptive
significance of individual odors in marmosets is debated. Individual odors may
play a key role in regulating both female intrasexual competition and intersexual
communication by providing a basis for the assessment of individual quality.

Copyright 2006 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20254 
PMID: 16715508  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2542. J Comp Neurol. 2006 Jul 10;497(2):270-86.

Development of the neural retina and its vasculature in the marmoset Callithrix
jacchus.

Hendrickson A(1), Troilo D, Possin D, Springer A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Structure, University of Washington, Seattle, 98195, 
USA. anitah@u.washington.edu

The morphological sequence of retinal development in the New World marmoset
monkey Callithrix jacchus is similar to previous reports in Macaca and humans.
The incipient fovea is present at fetal day (Fd) 100 as the only part of the
retina that contains five distinct layers, including a single layer of cone
photoreceptors. A foveal pit begins to form at Fd 135 in the center of the foveal
avascular zone which is surrounded by a ring of blood vessels (BV) and
astrocytes. At birth (Fd 144) the fovea has a single layer of cones over the pit 
center where the inner retinal layers are thinned but still separated. After
birth the fovea rapidly matures so that foveal cone and pit morphology are
similar to adult by 4 months. Five distinct layers and the BV plexus in the nerve
fiber layer are present to the retinal edge in neonatal marmosets. Near the optic
disc BV are sprouting into outer retinal layers at birth and vascularization of
the outer retina is completed by 2 to 3 months. Retinal length increases sharply 
up to Fd 135, but undergoes a quiescent period around birth during which pit
formation begins. Length then increases again up to 4mo, followed by a slow
increase into adulthood. The postnatal increase is accompanied by a marked
thinning of the peripheral retina. The pars plana appears after birth and its
length increases at least until 2 years of age. The major difference between
marmoset and Macaca is the relative immaturity of the marmoset fovea at birth,
and its rapid development after birth. This makes the marmoset a good candidate
for neonatal experimental manipulation of retinal and eye development.

Copyright 2006 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.20996 
PMID: 16705674  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

