

2545. Neuropharmacology. 2006 Aug;51(2):238-50. Epub 2006 May 6.

Enhancing effects of nicotine and impairing effects of scopolamine on distinct
aspects of performance in computerized attention and working memory tasks in
marmoset monkeys.

Spinelli S(1), Ballard T, Feldon J, Higgins GA, Pryce CR.

Author information: 
(1)Behavioural Neurobiology Laboratory, Swiss Federal Institute of Technology
Zurich, Schorenstrasse 16, CH-8603 Schwerzenbach, Switzerland.

With the CAmbridge Neuropsychological Test Automated Battery (CANTAB),
computerized neuropsychological tasks can be presented on a touch-sensitive
computer screen, and this system has been used to assess cognitive processes in
neuropsychiatric patients, healthy volunteers, and species of non-human primate, 
primarily the rhesus macaque and common marmoset. Recently, we reported that the 
common marmoset, a small-bodied primate, can be trained to a high and stable
level of performance on the CANTAB five-choice serial reaction time (5-CSRT) task
of attention, and a novel task of working memory, the concurrent delayed
match-to-position (CDMP) task. Here, in order to increase understanding of the
specific cognitive demands of these tasks and the importance of acetylcholine to 
their performance, the effects of systemic delivery of the muscarinic receptor
antagonist scopolamine and the nicotinic receptor agonist nicotine were studied. 
In the 5-CSRT task, nicotine enhanced performance in terms of increased sustained
attention, whilst scopolamine led to increased omissions despite a high level of 
orientation to the correct stimulus location. In the CDMP task, scopolamine
impaired performance at two stages of the task that differ moderately in terms of
memory retention load but both of which are likely to require working memory,
including interference-coping, abilities. Nicotine tended to enhance performance 
at the long-delay stage specifically but only against a background of relatively 
low baseline performance. These data are consistent with a dissociation of the
roles of muscarinic and nicotinic cholinergic receptors in the regulation of both
sustained attention and working memory in primates.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuropharm.2006.03.012 
PMID: 16678864  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2546. Theriogenology. 2006 Sep 15;66(5):1194-209. Epub 2006 May 4.

Hormonal regulation of apoptosis in the endometrium of common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus).

Narkar M(1), Kholkute S, Nandedkar T.

Author information: 
(1)Cell Biology Department, National Institute for Research in Reproductive
Health (ICMR), Parel, Mumbai 400 012, Maharashtra, India.

Phase-dependent apoptotic changes in the human endometrium during an ovarian
cycle imply a potential role of steroids in the regulation of apoptosis. The
present study was undertaken to determine the direct role of hormones in
endometrial apoptosis in marmosets (Callithrix jacchus), a primate species which 
shows similarity to humans in terms of the cycle length and pattern. Endometrial 
apoptosis was detected by 3'-end labeling (TUNEL) in various phases of ovarian
cycle in naturally cycling healthy marmosets (n=14) and also in ovariectomized
marmosets (n=13) treated with either estradiol alone (E) or progesterone alone
(P) or estradiol followed by progesterone (E+P). Expressions of apoptosis
associated genes such as Bcl-2 family members (Bax and Bcl-2), proliferating cell
nuclear antigen (PCNA)--a proliferation marker and steroid receptors, ERalpha and
PR A were analysed by immunohistochemical methods. Apoptosis was intense in the
glandular epithelial cells of endometrium during the mid-luteal phase as compared
to other phases in naturally cycling animals; in the E+P group as compared to
other groups of ovariectomized animals (P<0.05). Pronounced apoptosis in the
mid-luteal phase was accompanied by the increased expression of Bax in glandular 
epithelial cells; while Bcl-2 immunoreactivity remained unchanged. PCNA
expression was higher in the naturally cycling animals in the follicular phase
and in the E group of the ovariectomized animals as compared those in the other
groups. Immunoreactive ERalpha and PR A in glandular epithelial cells were most
abundant during early follicular phase in naturally cycling animals and in both E
and E+P groups among the ovariectomized animals. The present study highlights the
importance of apoptosis in endometrial remodeling during the ovarian cycle and
secondly, the role of both estradiol and progesterone in the regulation of
apoptosis.

DOI: 10.1016/j.theriogenology.2006.03.032 
PMID: 16677699  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

