

2546. Theriogenology. 2006 Sep 15;66(5):1194-209. Epub 2006 May 4.

Hormonal regulation of apoptosis in the endometrium of common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus).

Narkar M(1), Kholkute S, Nandedkar T.

Author information: 
(1)Cell Biology Department, National Institute for Research in Reproductive
Health (ICMR), Parel, Mumbai 400 012, Maharashtra, India.

Phase-dependent apoptotic changes in the human endometrium during an ovarian
cycle imply a potential role of steroids in the regulation of apoptosis. The
present study was undertaken to determine the direct role of hormones in
endometrial apoptosis in marmosets (Callithrix jacchus), a primate species which 
shows similarity to humans in terms of the cycle length and pattern. Endometrial 
apoptosis was detected by 3'-end labeling (TUNEL) in various phases of ovarian
cycle in naturally cycling healthy marmosets (n=14) and also in ovariectomized
marmosets (n=13) treated with either estradiol alone (E) or progesterone alone
(P) or estradiol followed by progesterone (E+P). Expressions of apoptosis
associated genes such as Bcl-2 family members (Bax and Bcl-2), proliferating cell
nuclear antigen (PCNA)--a proliferation marker and steroid receptors, ERalpha and
PR A were analysed by immunohistochemical methods. Apoptosis was intense in the
glandular epithelial cells of endometrium during the mid-luteal phase as compared
to other phases in naturally cycling animals; in the E+P group as compared to
other groups of ovariectomized animals (P<0.05). Pronounced apoptosis in the
mid-luteal phase was accompanied by the increased expression of Bax in glandular 
epithelial cells; while Bcl-2 immunoreactivity remained unchanged. PCNA
expression was higher in the naturally cycling animals in the follicular phase
and in the E group of the ovariectomized animals as compared those in the other
groups. Immunoreactive ERalpha and PR A in glandular epithelial cells were most
abundant during early follicular phase in naturally cycling animals and in both E
and E+P groups among the ovariectomized animals. The present study highlights the
importance of apoptosis in endometrial remodeling during the ovarian cycle and
secondly, the role of both estradiol and progesterone in the regulation of
apoptosis.

DOI: 10.1016/j.theriogenology.2006.03.032 
PMID: 16677699  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2547. J Neurosci. 2006 May 3;26(18):4785-95.

Plasticity of temporal pattern codes for vocalization stimuli in primary auditory
cortex.

Schnupp JW(1), Hall TM, Kokelaar RF, Ahmed B.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Physiology, University of Oxford, Oxford OX1 3PT, United
Kingdom. jan.schnupp@physiol.ox.ac.uk

It has been suggested that "call-selective" neurons may play an important role in
the encoding of vocalizations in primary auditory cortex (A1). For example,
marmoset A1 neurons often respond more vigorously to natural than to
time-reversed twitter calls, although the spectral energy distribution in the
natural and time-reversed signals is the same. Neurons recorded in cat A1, in
contrast, showed no such selectivity for natural marmoset calls. To investigate
whether call selectivity in A1 can arise purely as a result of auditory
experience, we recorded responses to marmoset calls in A1 of naive ferrets, as
well as in ferrets that had been trained to recognize these natural marmoset
calls. We found that training did not induce call selectivity for the trained
vocalizations in A1. However, although ferret A1 neurons were not call selective,
they efficiently represented the vocalizations through temporal pattern codes,
and trained animals recognized marmoset twitters with a high degree of accuracy. 
These temporal patterns needed to be analyzed at timescales of 10-50 ms to ensure
efficient decoding. Training led to a substantial increase in the amount of
information transmitted by these temporal discharge patterns, but the fundamental
nature of the temporal pattern code remained unaltered. These results emphasize
the importance of temporal discharge patterns and cast doubt on the functional
significance of call-selective neurons in the processing of animal communication 
sounds at the level of A1.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.4330-05.2006 
PMCID: PMC6674162
PMID: 16672651  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

