

2549. Comp Immunol Microbiol Infect Dis. 2006 Mar-May;29(2-3):89-99. Epub 2006 May 2.

Development and biological properties of a new live attenuated mumps vaccine.

Saika S(1), Kidokoro M, Kubonoya H, Ito K, Ohkawa T, Aoki A, Nagata N, Suzuki K.

Author information: 
(1)Chiba Prefectural Institute of Public Health, 666-2 Nitona-Cho, Chuo-Ku,
Chiba-City, Chiba 260-8715, Japan. s.sik@ma.pref.chiba.jp

To develop a new live attenuated mumps vaccine, a wild mumps Y7 strain isolated
from a patient who developed mild parotitis was treated with nitrosoguanidine and
ultraviolet, followed by selection of a temperature-sensitive clone. The selected
clone, Y125, showed stable temperature-sensitivity in Vero cells. Intraspinal
inoculation of marmosets with the Y125 produced only minimal histopathological
changes, while intracerebral inoculation of neonatal rats revealed that the Y125 
did not cause hydrocephalus. Both these effects of the Y125 were similar to those
of the non-neurovirulent Jeryl Lynn strain. Furthermore, subcutaneous inoculation
of the Y125 induced high levels of neutralizing antibodies in all Cercopithecus
monkeys examined. Although the safety and immunogenicity should be confirmed in
further field trials in humans, the present results indicate that the Y125 could 
be a promising vaccine candidate.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cimid.2006.01.004 
PMID: 16647119  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2550. J Am Assoc Lab Anim Sci. 2006 May;45(3):54-7.

Calcinosis circumscripta in a common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus jacchus).

Wachtman LM(1), Pistorio AL, Eliades S, Mankowski JL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Comparative Medicine, Johns Hopkins School of Medicine,
Baltimore, MD, USA.

A 2.5-y-old, male common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus jacchus) developed a 2-cm, 
interscapular, subcutaneous mass with variably firm and cystic areas. Radiographs
demonstrated a radiodense mass in close proximity to a previously implanted
microchip. Fine-needle aspiration yielded a chalky liquid that, on cytologic
examination, contained amorphous debris. Aerobic and anaerobic cultures were
negative. Surgical excision required extensive dissection, with the mass
infiltrating deep to the scapula and extending to the mammary gland. The mass
weighed 30 g and comprised 10% of the animal's body weight. Microscopic
examination demonstrated multifocal, variably sized, amorphous aggregates of
granular, basophilic material (mineral) in the subcutis and extending to skeletal
muscle. Mineral deposits were surrounded by macrophages, giant cells, and fibrous
connective tissue. A focal area of ectopic bone production was present.
Crystallographic analysis and x-ray diffractometry determined the material to be 
comprised of 100% hydroxyapatite. These findings were consistent with a diagnosis
of calcinosis circumscripta. Systemic metabolic abnormalities were excluded based
on examination of complete blood count, serum chemistry, and ionized calcium.
Calcinosis circumscripta in the common marmoset has not previously been reported,
although the lesion has been reported to occur in rhesus macaques and is well
described in man and dogs. Accumulation of calcium deposits and production of
ectopic bone in a marmoset is interesting in light of this species's unique
calcium and vitamin D metabolism.


PMID: 16642972  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

