

255. J Comp Neurol. 2021 May 1;529(7):1628-1641. doi: 10.1002/cne.25044. Epub 2020 Oct
7.

Marmosets have a greater diversity of c-Fos response after hyperstimulation in
distinct cortical regions as compared to rats.

Magalhães SA(1), Foresti ML(1)(2), Barros VN(1), Mello LE(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Physiology Department, Universidade Federal de São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil.
(2)Instituto D'Or de Pesquisa e Ensino, Botafogo, Brazil.

Previous evidence indicated a potential mechanism that might support the fact
that primates exhibit greater neural integration capacity as a result of the
activation of different structures of the central nervous system, as compared to 
rodents. The current study aimed to provide further evidence to confirm previous 
findings by analyzing the patterns of c-Fos expression in more neocortical
structures of rats and marmosets using a more robust quantitative technique and
evaluating a larger number of brain areas. Nineteen Wistar rats and 21 marmosets 
(Callithrix jacchus) were distributed among control groups (animals without
injections) and animals injected with pentylenetetrazol (PTZ) and euthanized at
different time points after stimulus. Immunohistochemical detection of c-Fos was 
quantified using unbiased and efficient stereological cell counting in eight
neocortical regions. Marmosets had a c-Fos expression that was notably more
widely expressed (5× more cells) and longer lasting (up to 3 hr) than rats. c-Fos
expression in rats presented similar patterns of expression according to the
function of the brain cortical structures (associative, sensorial, and motor
functions), which was not observed for marmosets (in which no clear pattern could
be drawn, and a more diverse profile emerged). Our results provide evidence that 
the marmoset brain has a greater neuronal activation after intense stimulation by
means of PTZ and a more complex pattern of brain activation. We speculate that
these functional differences may contribute for the understanding of the
different neuronal processing capacities of the neocortex in these mammals'
orders.

© 2020 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.25044 
PMID: 32975324  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


256. Front Psychiatry. 2020 Aug 19;11:826. doi: 10.3389/fpsyt.2020.00826. eCollection 
2020.

Effects of Ketamine Administration on Auditory Information Processing in the
Neocortex of Nonhuman Primates.

Komatsu M(1)(2), Ichinohe N(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Molecular Analysis of Higher Brain Functions, RIKEN Center for 
Brain Science, Saitama, Japan.
(2)Department of Ultrastructural Research, National Center of Neurology and
Psychiatry, Tokyo, Japan.

Ketamine, an N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist, exerts broad
effects on consciousness and perception. Since NMDA receptor antagonists induce
cognitive impairments, ketamine has been used for translational research on
several psychiatric diseases, such as schizophrenia. Whereas the effects of
ketamine on cognitive functions have been extensively studied, studies on the
effects of ketamine on simple sensory information processing remain limited. In
this study, we investigated the cortex-wide effects of ketamine administration on
auditory information processing in nonhuman primates using whole-cortical
electrocorticography (ECoG). We first recorded ECoG from awake monkeys on
presenting auditory stimuli of different frequencies or different durations. We
observed auditory evoked responses (AERs) across the cortex, including in
frontal, parietal, and temporal areas, while feature-specific responses were
obtained around the temporal sulcus. Next, we examined the effects of ketamine on
cortical auditory information processing. We conducted ECoG recordings from
monkeys that had been administered anesthetic doses of ketamine from 10 to
180 min following administration. We observed significant changes in stimulus
feature-specific responses. Electrodes showing a frequency preference or offset
responses were altered following ketamine administration, while those of the AERs
were not strongly influenced. However, the frequency preference of a selected
electrode was not significantly altered by ketamine administration over time
following administration, while the imbalances in the onset and offset persisted 
over the course of 150 min following ketamine administration in all three
monkeys. These results suggest that ketamine affects the ability to distinguish
between sound frequency and duration in different ways. In conclusion, future
research on the NMDA sensitivity of cortical wide sensory information processing 
may provide a new perspective into the development of nonhuman primate models of 
psychiatric disorders.

Copyright © 2020 Komatsu and Ichinohe.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyt.2020.00826 
PMCID: PMC7466740
PMID: 32973576 

