

2551. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2006 May;47(5):1768-77.

Change in the synthesis rates of ocular retinoic acid and scleral
glycosaminoglycan during experimentally altered eye growth in marmosets.

Troilo D(1), Nickla DL, Mertz JR, Summers Rada JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Science and Disease, The New England College of
Optometry, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA. troilod@neco.edu

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to examine the possibility that
all-trans-retinoic acid (RA) in the eye is a signal related to changes in scleral
extracellular matrix in a primate model of postnatal eye growth.
METHODS: Juvenile marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) were divided into two
experimental groups based on their response to monocular deprivation with
diffusers: group 1, treated eyes becoming longer than fellow control eyes (n =
8), and group 2, treated eyes becoming shorter than control eyes (n = 7). Eyes
were enucleated, dissected, and assayed for changes in the rates of scleral
glycosaminoglycan (GAG) synthesis and ocular RA synthesis. The rate of
incorporation of (35)SO4 into CPC-precipitable GAG in scleras was taken as a
measure of the rate of synthesis of proteoglycans. In the same eyes the rate of
RA synthesis in vivo was measured separately in the retina and the choroid/RPE
(choroid with RPE attached) by HPLC. The effect of RA on the rate of scleral GAG 
synthesis was also examined in tissue-cultured pieces of sclera from additional
marmosets.
RESULTS: Induced changes in vitreous chamber length in diffuser-treated eyes
correlated inversely with the rate of scleral GAG synthesis (P < 0.05) and
directly correlated with the rate of RA synthesis measured separately in the
retina (P < 0.05) and the choroid/RPE (P < 0.05). In group 1, the rate of scleral
GAG synthesis was significantly lower (P < 0.01) in the treated eyes relative to 
control eyes, and the rate of RA synthesis in both the retina and the choroid/RPE
was significantly higher (P < 0.01). In group 2, the rates of scleral GAG
synthesis and RA synthesis in either the retina or choroid/RPE were not found to 
change significantly in the treated eyes compared with the control eyes. RA
partially reduces the rate of scleral GAG synthesis in tissue-cultured primate
sclera in a dose-dependent manner after several days.
CONCLUSIONS: RA may play a role in the visual control of postnatal eye growth in 
primates, possibly by inducing changes in scleral extracellular matrix associated
with increasing eye size. Decreasing growth rate below control levels may involve
other mechanisms.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.05-0298 
PMCID: PMC1892188
PMID: 16638980  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2552. J Med Virol. 2006 Jun;78(6):770-9.

Clonality analysis by sequence variation of the latent membrane protein 1 gene in
patients with chronic active Epstein-Barr virus infection.

Shibata Y(1), Hoshino Y, Hara S, Yagasaki H, Kojima S, Nishiyama Y, Morishima T, 
Kimura H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Nagoya University Graduate School of Medicine,
Nagoya, Japan.

Chronic active Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) infection is a severe systemic disease
associated with high rates of mortality and morbidity. Recent studies suggest
that the clonal expansion of EBV-infected T or natural killer cells plays a
crucial role in the pathogenesis of chronic active EBV infection. However, it is 
not clear whether chronic active EBV infection is truly a monoclonal disorder
that originates from one cell. The clonality of EBV was investigated by sequence 
variation of the latent membrane protein 1 (LMP1) gene, which has a high degree
of sequence heterogeneity. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells were obtained from 
nine Japanese patients with chronic active EBV infection and four with infectious
mononucleosis. A carboxyl-terminal region of the LMP1 gene was analyzed by
polymerase chain reaction (PCR). The amplified PCR products were subcloned, and
18 clones from each sample were sequenced. Patients with chronic active EBV
infection each had two to five different LMP1 nucleotide sequences, whereas
patients with infectious mononucleosis each had one to seven different sequences.
Patients with chronic active EBV infection and infectious mononucleosis both had 
one dominant sequence. Longitudinal analysis was performed in four patients with 
chronic active EBV infection, in whom the dominant strains were found to have
remained unchanged for several years. The results suggest that EBV in patients
with chronic active EBV infection was polyclonal, although clonal expansion may
occur. Collectively, these findings are critical to clarify further the
pathogenesis of chronic active EBV infection and aid in the development of
effective treatment strategies.

DOI: 10.1002/jmv.20622 
PMID: 16628581  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

