

2554. Psychoneuroendocrinology. 2006 Jul;31(6):692-702. Epub 2006 Apr 18.

Hypoestrogenism does not mediate social suppression of cortisol in subordinate
female marmosets.

Saltzman W(1), Hogan BK, Allen AJ, Horman BM, Abbott DH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of California, Riverside, CA 92521, USA.
saltzman@ucr.edu

Behaviorally subordinate female marmosets undergo social suppression of ovulation
and hypoestrogenism, as well as chronic reductions in circulating basal cortisol 
concentrations. Because estrogen elevates hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis
activity and circulating glucocorticoid levels in other species, we tested the
hypothesis that socially induced hypoestrogenism contributes to cortisol
reductions in subordinate female marmosets. We characterized morning basal plasma
cortisol levels, as well as cortisol responses to exogenous adrenocorticotropic
hormone (ACTH; 0, 1, or 10 microg/kg), in seven anovulatory subordinate females
and six ovariectomized, non-subordinate females under two conditions: during
long-term treatment with estradiol (E2) and control. Circulating E2 and cortisol 
levels were compared to those of six dominant females undergoing ovulatory
cycles. Basal cortisol concentrations in the control condition were significantly
lower in subordinates than in both dominant and ovariectomized females. E2
treatment elevated circulating E2 levels of subordinate and ovariectomized
females into the range seen in dominant females but did not increase either mean 
basal or ACTH-stimulated cortisol levels. To the contrary, E2 treatment caused a 
decline in basal cortisol levels over time, especially in ovariectomized animals.
These results indicate that treatment with exogenous estrogen does not elevate
circulating cortisol levels in previously hypoestrogenemic female marmosets and, 
correspondingly that socially induced hypoestrogenism does not diminish cortisol 
levels in subordinate females.

DOI: 10.1016/j.psyneuen.2006.01.006 
PMID: 16624494  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2555. Eur J Neurosci. 2006 Apr;23(7):1766-74.

MPTP treatment of common marmosets impairs proteasomal enzyme activity and
decreases expression of structural and regulatory elements of the 26S proteasome.

Zeng BY(1), Iravani MM, Lin ST, Irifune M, Kuoppamäki M, Al-Barghouthy G, Smith
L, Jackson MJ, Rose S, Medhurst AD, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Research Group, GKT School of Biomedical and Health 
Sciences, King's College, London, SE1 1UL, UK.

Dysfunction of the ubiquitin-proteasome system occurs in the substantia nigra
(SN) in Parkinson's disease (PD). However, it is unknown whether this is a
primary cause or a secondary consequence of other components of the pathogenic
process. We have investigated in nonhuman primates whether initiating cell death 
through mitochondrial complex I inhibition using
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine hydrochloride (MPTP) altered
proteasomal activity or the proteasomal components in the SN. Chymotrypsin-like, 
trypsin-like and peptidylglutamyl-peptide hydrolase (PGPH) activating of 20S
proteasome were decreased in SN homogenates of MPTP-treated marmosets compared to
naïve animals. Western blotting revealed a marked decrease in the expression of
20S-alpha subunits, but no change in 20S-beta subunits in the SN of MPTP-treated 
marmoset compared to naïve animals. There was a marked decrease in the expression
of the proteasome activator 700 (PA700) and proteasome activator 28 (PA28)
regulatory complexes. The 20S-alpha4 subunit immunoreactivity was decreased in
the nucleus of colocalized tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-positive cells of
MPTP-treated animals compared to naïve animals but no difference in the intensity
of 20S-beta1i subunit staining. Immunoreactivity for PA700-Rpt5 and PA28-alpha
subunits within surviving TH-positive cells of MPTP-treated marmoset was reduced 
compared to naïve controls. Overall, the changes in proteasomal function and
structure occurring follow MPTP-induced destruction of the SN in common marmosets
were very similar to those found in PD. This suggests that altered proteasomal
function in PD could be a consequence of other pathogenic processes occurring in 
SN as opposed to initiating cell death as previously suggested.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2006.04718.x 
PMID: 16623833  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

