

2560. Mol Hum Reprod. 2006 May;12(5):291-9. Epub 2006 Apr 11.

Induction of endometriosis in the marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus).

Einspanier A(1), Lieder K, Brüns A, Husen B, Thole H, Simon C.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Physiological Chemistry, Veterinary Faculty, Leipzig, Germany.
einspaner@vetmed.uni-leipzig.de

Endometriosis is an estrogen-dependent gynaecological disease associated with
pain and infertility, which occurs in humans and menstruating primates. In this
study, the marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus), which is a non-menstruating
primate with high circulating estrogen levels, was used to test firstly the
hypothesis that endometriosis is based on uterine shedding into the peritoneal
cavity, secondly to study the pathogenesis of endometriosis due to its estrogenic
situation. Female marmoset monkeys (n = 29) were exposed to two different
experimental procedures (non-invasive versus invasive) for intrapelvic placement 
of endometrial cells by uterine flushing over an experimental period of 2-3
years. First endometriotic foci were detected by colour Doppler ultrasound at the
bladder, the uterus and the ovaries at the earliest after 4 months of either
treatments. However, invasive induction was more effective in terms of the
time-course of induction and the number of resulting endometriotic foci. The
analysis of the endometriotic foci by histology, immunohistochemistry and
molecular techniques allowed a division into two distinct groups: an initial
developing stage occurred, which under further treatment led to the second stage 
of established endometriosis. Both procedures showed a treatment-dependent
increase of vascular supply to the endometriotic foci over the experimental
period. The invasive method induced the final established stage of endometriosis 
more rapidly, with the expression of steroid receptors, aromatase, 17betaHSD1 and
CD10. Altogether, 72% of the treated marmoset monkeys developed endometriosis
under our endometrial reflux protocols. Our data support the theory that
endometriosis can be induced artificially in a non-menstruating primate (C.
jacchus) by endometrial shedding into the peritoneal cavity. Because the marmoset
is a primate with very high peripheral estrogen levels, this offers an
interesting model for studying the pathogenesis of this estrogen-dependent
disease, as well as for therapeutic impacts on enzymes involved in steroid
metabolism.

DOI: 10.1093/molehr/gal031 
PMID: 16608906  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2561. Eur J Pharmacol. 2006 May 1;536(3):269-78. Epub 2006 Mar 10.

The tachykinin NK3 receptor antagonist SR142801 blocks the behavioral effects of 
cocaine in marmoset monkeys.

De Souza Silva MA(1), Mello EL Jr, Müller CP, Jocham G, Maior RS, Huston JP,
Tomaz C, Barros M.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Physiological Psychology and Center for Biological and Medical
Research, University of Düsseldorf, Universitätsstr. 1, 40225 Düsseldorf,
Germany.

Brain neuropeptide transmitters of the tachykinin family are involved in the
organization of many behaviors. However, little is known about their contribution
to the behavioral effects of drugs of abuse. Recently, the tachykinin NK3
receptor, one of the three tachykinin receptors in the brain, was shown to
attenuate the acute and chronic behavioral effects of cocaine in rats. In order
to test if these findings can be generalized to primates we investigated the role
of the tachykinin NK3 receptor in the acute behavioral effects of cocaine in
marmoset monkeys (Callithrix penicillata) using a figure-eight maze procedure.
Animals were pretreated with the tachykinin NK3 receptor antagonist,
(R)-(N)-[1-[3-[1-benzoyl-3-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)piperidin-3-yl]propyl]-4-phenylpip
eridin-4-yl]-N-methylacetamide (SR142801; 0, 0.02, 0.2, 2.0 mg/kg, i.p.), and
received either a treatment with cocaine (10 mg/kg, i.p) or saline (i.p.).
Cocaine increased locomotor activity and aerial glance behavior, but reduced
exploratory and bodycare activities, scent marking and terrestrial scanning
behavior. A sensitivity analysis revealed that two responder types can be
differentiated in relation to the occurrence of a hyperlocomotor response to
cocaine. SR142801 blocked the actions of cocaine on several behaviors
dose-dependently for each responder type, respectively. There was no effect of
SR142801 alone on any behavior measured. These data suggest that the tachykinin
NK3 receptor contributes to the individual behavioral response to cocaine in
marmoset monkeys. Having no behavioral effects on its own, but blocking the
cocaine effects, might suggest the tachykinin NK3 receptor antagonist, SR142801, 
as a potential treatment of cocaine addiction in humans.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2006.03.010 
PMID: 16603151  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

