

2566. Psychopharmacology (Berl). 2006 May;185(4):433-40. Epub 2006 Mar 21.

Behavioral effects of modafinil in marmoset monkeys.

van Vliet SA(1), Jongsma MJ, Vanwersch RA, Olivier B, Philippens IH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Diagnosis and Therapy, TNO Defence, Security and Safety, Lange
Kleiweg 137, 2288 GJ, Rijswijk, The Netherlands. vliet_s@pml.tno.nl

RATIONALE: Modafinil is increasingly used in sleep disturbances in general and in
neurodegenerative diseases and is recently being used in healthy people for
attention control. However, the application of modafinil is possibly not only
restricted to alertness enhancing effects. More insight in this compound may lead
to new applications. Not all behavioral aspects have been studied sufficiently;
therefore, more detailed investigations on modafinil's positive and aversive
behavioral effects are addressed in this paper.
OBJECTIVES: Determination of effects of modafinil in marmoset monkeys with
observational methods and with behavioral tests measuring locomotor activity,
hand-eye coordination, response to a threat situation and startle response.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Two hours after oral administration of modafinil in doses 
of 50, 100, 150, and 225 mg/kg, animals were observed and tested in the
behavioral test systems.
RESULTS: Locomotor activity was increased after 100 mg/kg modafinil in the
Bungalow test and after 100, 150, and 225 mg/kg, as found in the movement
parameters of the human threat test. Moreover, modafinil showed anxiolytic-like
effects in the human threat test. No other side effects were observed, nor were
the hand-eye coordination and startle response affected.
CONCLUSIONS: Besides psychostimulation, modafinil has no aversive effects in the 
doses used in the domains measured. The potential anxiolytic-like effects of
modafinil may create new possibilities for the therapeutic use of modafinil.

DOI: 10.1007/s00213-006-0340-4 
PMID: 16550386  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2567. Vestn Ross Akad Med Nauk. 2006;(2):11-5.

[Monkeys as subjects for study of immunobiological preparations].

[Article in Russian]

Aleshkin VA, Lapin BA, Afanas'ev SS, Pospelova VV, Dzhikidze EK, Afanas'ev MS.

The parameters of colon microbiocenosis were evaluated in healthy animals
belonging to 6 species of marmosets; its disorders typical of patients with
different forms of acute intestinal infections were revealed. Bifidoflora of
young monkeys was characterized. The study demonstrated multiple similarities of 
the microflora of monkeys and humans, including small children. A preclinical
study of dry bifidin, a probiotic, revealed its advantages over the commercial
bifidumbacterin. 90 monkeys were used for preclinical evaluation of complex
immunoglobulin preparation (CIP) and a combination of CIP with interferon
(kipferon in suppositories). The study demonstrated sanifying and
microflora-normalizing effects, increase of anti-microbial antibodies and serum
interferon after both parenteral and rectal administration. The protective
activity of a new variant of the probiotic Acilact in exposure to ionizing
radiation and anticancer chemotherapy under experimental conditions


PMID: 16544898  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

