

2567. Vestn Ross Akad Med Nauk. 2006;(2):11-5.

[Monkeys as subjects for study of immunobiological preparations].

[Article in Russian]

Aleshkin VA, Lapin BA, Afanas'ev SS, Pospelova VV, Dzhikidze EK, Afanas'ev MS.

The parameters of colon microbiocenosis were evaluated in healthy animals
belonging to 6 species of marmosets; its disorders typical of patients with
different forms of acute intestinal infections were revealed. Bifidoflora of
young monkeys was characterized. The study demonstrated multiple similarities of 
the microflora of monkeys and humans, including small children. A preclinical
study of dry bifidin, a probiotic, revealed its advantages over the commercial
bifidumbacterin. 90 monkeys were used for preclinical evaluation of complex
immunoglobulin preparation (CIP) and a combination of CIP with interferon
(kipferon in suppositories). The study demonstrated sanifying and
microflora-normalizing effects, increase of anti-microbial antibodies and serum
interferon after both parenteral and rectal administration. The protective
activity of a new variant of the probiotic Acilact in exposure to ionizing
radiation and anticancer chemotherapy under experimental conditions


PMID: 16544898  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2568. Anim Cogn. 2006 Jul;9(3):229-33. Epub 2006 Mar 16.

Can wild common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) solve the parallel strings task?

Halsey LG(1), Bezerra BM, Souto AS.

Author information: 
(1)School of Biosciences, University of Birmingham, Edgbaston, Birmingham, B15
2TT, UK. l.g.halsey@bham.ac.uk

Patterned string tasks are a test of perceptual capacity and the understanding of
means-end connections. Primates can solve complex forms of this task in
laboratories. However, this may not indicate the level of such cognition that is 
commonly employed in the wild, where decision-making time is often short and
distractions such as predator avoidance and competition between conspecifics are 
often prevalent. The current study tests whether wild common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus) can successfully complete the simplest form of the patterned
string task, parallel strings, while in their natural environment. Although 12
out of 13 marmosets could successfully complete the task, in previous
laboratory-based studies on primates, the errors at this task by all primate
species tested were consistently lower than in the present study. This is
probably explained by the added difficulties imposed by the natural setting of
the task in the present study, exemplified by a significant increase in observed 
vigilance behaviour by subject animals prior to attempts at the task that were
unsuccessful. The undertaking of such tasks by common marmosets in situ probably 
provides a more reasonable representation of the levels of cognitive capacity
expressed by this species in the wild than do laboratory-based studies of the
task.

DOI: 10.1007/s10071-006-0016-9 
PMID: 16541239  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

