

2568. Anim Cogn. 2006 Jul;9(3):229-33. Epub 2006 Mar 16.

Can wild common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) solve the parallel strings task?

Halsey LG(1), Bezerra BM, Souto AS.

Author information: 
(1)School of Biosciences, University of Birmingham, Edgbaston, Birmingham, B15
2TT, UK. l.g.halsey@bham.ac.uk

Patterned string tasks are a test of perceptual capacity and the understanding of
means-end connections. Primates can solve complex forms of this task in
laboratories. However, this may not indicate the level of such cognition that is 
commonly employed in the wild, where decision-making time is often short and
distractions such as predator avoidance and competition between conspecifics are 
often prevalent. The current study tests whether wild common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus) can successfully complete the simplest form of the patterned
string task, parallel strings, while in their natural environment. Although 12
out of 13 marmosets could successfully complete the task, in previous
laboratory-based studies on primates, the errors at this task by all primate
species tested were consistently lower than in the present study. This is
probably explained by the added difficulties imposed by the natural setting of
the task in the present study, exemplified by a significant increase in observed 
vigilance behaviour by subject animals prior to attempts at the task that were
unsuccessful. The undertaking of such tasks by common marmosets in situ probably 
provides a more reasonable representation of the levels of cognitive capacity
expressed by this species in the wild than do laboratory-based studies of the
task.

DOI: 10.1007/s10071-006-0016-9 
PMID: 16541239  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2569. Seishin Shinkeigaku Zasshi. 2006;108(1):10-23.

[Minamata disease: a neuropathological viewpoint].

[Article in Japanese]

Eto K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Ministry of Environment, National Institute for Minamata Disease.

Minamata disease (methylmercury poisoning) was first officially discovered around
Minamata Bay in the Kumamoto Prefecture on May 1st, 1956. This year, a
commemoration marking fifty years since this discovery of Minamata disease will
be held in Minamata City. Over the years, new facts have gradually surfaced,
especially after 1995, with the resolution of the political problems surrounding 
Minamata disease. For example, it was recently reported that large amounts of
methylmercury were generated by the chemical processes of the Chisso acetaldehyde
plant and later dumped directly into Minamata Bay. This report revealed the
August 1951 switch from using manganese dioxide to ferric sulfide as a reaction
promoter to maintain the activity of the Hg catalyst. As a result of this switch,
the amount of methylmercury generated in the process rapidly increased. Thus, the
true cause of the acute onset of Minamata disease in patients with a high-dose
contamination of methylmercury was made clear. The severe contamination by
methylmercury continued until 1968, when the plant finally stopped discharging
its waste water into Minamata Bay. In 1996, the National Institute for Minamata
Disease started an experimental study of methylmercury poisoning using the common
marmoset. Results from this study showed that the lesions characteristic of the
central nervous system in cases of acute methylmercury poisoning were promoted by
brain edema, while those of the peripheral nerves were caused by axonal
degeneration. Peripheral nerves were regenerated in two animals after two and a
half years. Lesions characteristic of Minamata disease are systematically found
throughout the nervous system. These lesions are found in the calcarine areas of 
occipital lobes, the pre- and post-central lobes, and the temporal transverse
gyri. Milder and more diffuse lesions are also found in the cerebrum, where
secondary degeneration of the central parts of white matter and internal sagittal
stratum are due to primary damage of neurons. Purkinje and granular cells
decrease in number in the cerebellum depending on the dose of methylmercury and
the duration of methylmercury exposure. In the spinal cord, there is no primary
change, but secondary degeneration is found on pyramidal tracts due to damage of 
the motor neurons of the precentral cortices. Additionally, secondary
degeneration of Goll's tract is seen due to the primary degeneration of sensory
nerve fibers including ganglion cells, sciatic nerves, and sural nerves. The
experiments on the methylmercury-treated common marmosets provided every feature 
of pathological change found in the nervous system in human autopsy cases,
depending on the dose of methylmercury.


PMID: 16532696  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

