

2574. J Comp Neurol. 2006 May 1;496(1):27-71.

Cortical connections of the auditory cortex in marmoset monkeys: core and medial 
belt regions.

de la Mothe LA(1), Blumell S, Kajikawa Y, Hackett TA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tennessee 37203,
USA.

The auditory cortex of primates contains a core region of three primary areas
surrounded by a belt region of secondary areas. Recent neurophysiological studies
suggest that the belt areas medial to the core have unique functional roles,
including multisensory properties, but little is known about their connections.
In this study and its companion, the cortical and subcortical connections of the 
core and medial belt regions of marmoset monkeys were compared to account for
functional differences between areas and refine our working model of the primate 
auditory cortex. Anatomical tracer injections targeted two core areas (A1 and R) 
and two medial belt areas (rostromedial [RM] and caudomedial [CM]). RM and CM had
topographically weighted connections with all other areas of the auditory cortex 
ipsilaterally, but these were less widespread contralaterally. CM was densely
connected with caudal auditory fields, the retroinsular (Ri) area of the
somatosensory cortex, the superior temporal sulcus (STS), and the posterior
parietal and entorhinal cortex. The connections of RM favored rostral auditory
areas, with no clear somatosensory inputs. RM also projected to the lateral
nucleus of the amygdala and tail of the caudate nucleus. A1 and R had
topographically weighted connections with medial and lateral belt regions,
infragranular inputs from the parabelt, and weak connections with fields outside 
the auditory cortex. The results indicated that RM and CM are distinct areas of
the medial belt region with direct inputs from the core. CM also has
somatosensory input and may correspond to an area on the posteromedial transverse
gyrus of humans and the anterior auditory field of other mammals.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.20923 
PMID: 16528722  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2575. Immunogenetics. 2006 Apr;58(2-3):122-8. Epub 2006 Mar 10.

Restrictive and diversifying elements of the anti-myelin/oligodendrocyte
glycoprotein antibody response in primate experimental allergic
encephalomyelitis.

von Büdingen HC(1), Menge T, Hauser SL, Genain CP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University Hospital Zürich, 8091, Zürich,
Switzerland.

Autoantibody responses against conformational epitopes of myelin/oligodendrocyte 
glycoprotein (MOG) possess myelin destructive potential, as demonstrated in the
marmoset model of human multiple sclerosis (MS) and in some rodent models of
experimental allergic encephalomyelitis. We have previously characterized
monoclonal Fab fragments specific for conformational epitopes of MOG that were
derived from a combinatorial antibody library generated from a MOG-immune
marmoset. In this paper, we address the molecular heterogeneity of humoral
responses against MOG in this outbred model of MS by studying additional antibody
clones derived from a genetically unrelated animal. We find that all MOG-specific
IgGkappa Fab fragments, unrelated to genetic make-up, utilize a restricted set of
variable region genes, IGHV1 and IGHV3 for the H chain and IGKV1, IGKV3, and
IGKV5 for the L chain. Despite these restricting factors, diversity within these 
antibody repertoires can be observed, predominantly within the H-chain CDR3
regions. Our findings suggest that only a limited set of Ig genes is necessary to
launch a diverse, destructive humoral immune response against a single CNS
antigen in primates. These results are the first to contribute to a better
understanding of how myelin-directed and potentially destructive autoantibody
responses may develop in human MS.

DOI: 10.1007/s00251-006-0100-y 
PMID: 16528499  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

