

2579. Biol Psychiatry. 2006 Oct 15;60(8):843-9. Epub 2006 Feb 24.

Diminished cortisol levels in subordinate female marmosets are associated with
altered central drive to the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis.

Saltzman W(1), Hogan BK, Abbott DH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology and Neuroscience Graduate Program, University of
California, Riverside, California 92521, USA. saltzman@ucr.edu

BACKGROUND: Female marmosets offer a promising primate model of stress-related
hypocortisolism, as they undergo chronic reductions in circulating cortisol after
becoming subordinate in a social group. In this study, we treated dominant and
subordinate female marmosets with the cortisol synthesis inhibitor metyrapone and
corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) to characterize the effects of subordination
on central regulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis.
METHODS: Seven dominant and six subordinate female marmosets received CRF (6
microg/kg, intravenous [IV]), following pretreatment with metyrapone (75 mg/kg,
by mouth [PO]) or water. Plasma adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) and cortisol
concentrations were determined before metyrapone or water treatment and before, 1
hour after, and 2 hours after CRF treatment.
RESULTS: Following metyrapone treatment, subordinates had similar cortisol levels
to dominants but significantly higher ACTH levels. During CRF challenges,
cortisol concentrations were lower and ACTH concentrations higher in
subordinates, although net integrated responses to CRF did not differ.
Cortisol-to-ACTH ratios were consistently lower in subordinates.
CONCLUSIONS: These results confirm previous findings of low cortisol
concentrations and blunted adrenal responsiveness in subordinates and suggest
that when differences in cortisol levels are eliminated, subordinates exhibit
exaggerated hypothalamic drive to the pituitary. These neuroendocrine alterations
in subordinate marmosets resemble those in posttraumatic stress disorder patients
and adult survivors of child abuse.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopsych.2005.12.006 
PMID: 16499881  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2580. Vestn Ross Akad Med Nauk. 2006;(1):6-10.

[Campylobacter in the etiology of acute intestinal infections in primates].

[Article in Russian]

Kalashnikova VA, Dzhikidze EK, Stasilevich ZK, Krylova RI, Kebu TI.

The subjects of the study were 1,249 primates of different species, kept in a
nursery in the city of Adler. The subjects varied in age, were either clinically 
healthy, diseased, or dead (the death had been caused by an acute intestinal
disease). Biological, molecular-genetic (PCR), and immunological (coagglutination
reaction) methods were used in diagnostics of campilobacter infections. The study
found campilobacter in 20.9% of healthy animals on the average; this number
varied depending on the species and age. The frequency of campilobacter infection
in diseased and dead animals was higher than that in healthy ones (40.1% and
20.9%, respectively.) Two types of Campilobacter were identified: C. jejuni
(73.4% of cases), and C. coli (14.2%). Clinical and pathomorphological
manifestations of campilobacteriosis in primates and humans are similar. The
portion of campilobacteriosis in acute intestinal diseases of primates is 40.1%.


PMID: 16496948  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

