

2582. Neuroimage. 2006 May 15;31(1):76-85. Epub 2006 Feb 17.

Orientation selectivity in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus): the
periodicity of orientation columns in V1 and V2.

McLoughlin N(1), Schiessl I.

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Life Sciences, University of Manchester, Manchester M60 1QD, UK.
niall.mcloughlin@manchester.ac.uk

Orientation selectivity is a ubiquitous property of the primary visual cortex of 
mammals. Within the primate, orientation selectivity is arranged into vertical
columns that are organized into a regular patchy pattern. Previous studies, in
old world primates, have noted an anisotropy in this arrangement that appears to 
be due to the presence of ocular dominance columns within the same tissue. In
addition, orientation selective responses appear to be arranged into bands of
activity within the adjoining extrastriate region V2. Little is known about the
precise arrangement of orientation columns within V2. In this study, we examined 
the layout of orientation columns within both V1 and V2 of a new world primate,
the common marmoset, using optical imaging. New world primates have the advantage
that, unlike the macaque, V2 exists on the cortical surface, a requirement for
this form of optical mapping. We found the arrangement of orientation columns to 
be isotropic within marmoset V1 with an average repeat distance of around 575
mum, smaller than the repeat distance previously reported for the macaque. We
found no evidence of ocular dominance within the animals tested supporting the
claim that ocular dominance columns when present distort the mapping of
orientation in V1. In V2 we found that orientation columns were larger and as in 
other primates were represented in discrete bands throughout V2. Orientation
columns were spaced on average around 1 mm apart. This suggests that, at least in
the marmoset, the visual system maps orientation at a different scale within V1
and V2.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2005.12.054 
PMID: 16487727  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2583. Cereb Cortex. 2007 Jan;17(1):18-27. Epub 2006 Feb 15.

Cognitive inflexibility after prefrontal serotonin depletion is behaviorally and 
neurochemically specific.

Clarke HF(1), Walker SC, Dalley JW, Robbins TW, Roberts AC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, University of Cambridge, Downing
Street, Cambridge, CB2 3EB, UK. hfc23@cam.ac.uk

We have previously demonstrated that prefrontal serotonin depletion impairs
orbitofrontal cortex (OFC)-mediated serial discrimination reversal (SDR) learning
but not lateral prefrontal cortex (PFC)-mediated attentional set shifting. To
address the neurochemical specificity of this reversal deficit, Experiment 1
compared the effects of selective serotonin and selective dopamine depletions of 
the OFC on performance of the SDR task. Whereas serotonin depletions markedly
impaired performance, OFC dopamine depletions were without effect. The behavioral
specificity of this reversal impairment was investigated in Experiment 2 by
examining the effect of OFC serotonin depletion on performance of a modified SDR 
task designed to distinguish between 3 possible causes of the impairment. The
results showed that the reversal deficit induced by prefrontal serotonin
depletion was not due to a failure to approach a previously unrewarded stimulus
(enhanced learned avoidance) or reduced proactive interference. Instead, it was
due specifically to a failure to inhibit responding to the previously rewarded
stimulus. The neurochemical and behavioral specificity of this particular form of
cognitive inflexibility is of particular relevance to our understanding of the
aetiology and treatment of inflexible behavior apparent in many neuropsychiatric 
and neurodegenerative disorders involving the PFC.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhj120 
PMID: 16481566  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

