

2586. Hum Reprod. 2006 Apr;21(4):896-904. Epub 2006 Feb 13.

Infant feeding with soy formula milk: effects on puberty progression,
reproductive function and testicular cell numbers in marmoset monkeys in
adulthood.

Tan KA(1), Walker M, Morris K, Greig I, Mason JI, Sharpe RM.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Human Reproductive Sciences Unit, Centre for Reproductive Biology and
Division of Reproductive and Developmental Science, The Queen's Medical Research 
Institute, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK.

BACKGROUND: This marmoset study addresses concerns about feeding human male
infants with soy formula milk (SFM).
METHODS: From age 4 to 5 days, seven male co-twin sets were fed standard formula 
milk (SMA) or SFM for 5-6 weeks; blood samples were subsequently collected at
10-week intervals. Testes from co-twins killed at 120-138 weeks were fixed for
cell counts.
RESULTS: SFM- and SMA-fed twins showed normal weight gain; puberty started and
progressed normally, based on blood testosterone measurements. Body weight, organ
weights (prostate, seminal vesicles, pituitary, thymus and spleen) and penis
length were comparable in co-twins. All SMA- and 6/7 SFM-fed males were fertile. 
Unexpectedly, testis weight (P = 0.041), Sertoli (P = 0.025) and Leydig cell (P =
0.026) numbers per testis were consistently increased in SFM-fed co-twins; the
increase in Leydig cell numbers was most marked in males with consistently
low-normal testosterone levels. Seminiferous epithelium volume per tubule showed 
a less consistent, non-significant increase in SFM-fed males; raised germ cell
numbers per testis, probably due to increased Sertoli cells, conceivably resulted
in larger testes. Average lumen size, although greater in SFM-fed group, was
inconsistent between co-twins and the difference was not significant.
CONCLUSIONS: Infant feeding with SFM has no gross adverse reproductive effects in
male marmosets, though it alters testis size and cell composition, and there is
consistent, if indirect, evidence for possible 'compensated Leydig cell failure'.
Similar and perhaps larger changes likely occur in adult men who were fed SFM as 
infants.

DOI: 10.1093/humrep/dei421 
PMID: 16476680  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2587. J Neurochem. 2006 Mar;96(5):1315-21. Epub 2006 Feb 8.

Pramipexole protects against MPTP toxicity in non-human primates.

Iravani MM(1), Haddon CO, Cooper JM, Jenner P, Schapira AH.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Research Centre, GKT School of Biomedical Sciences, 
King's College, London, UK.

The neurotoxin MPTP induces nigral dopaminergic cell death in primates and
produces a partial model of Parkinson's disease (PD). Pramipexole is a D2/D3
dopamine receptor agonist used in the symptomatic treatment of PD, and which also
protects neuronal cells against dopaminergic toxins in vitro. We now demonstrate 
that pramipexole partially prevents MPTP toxicity in vivo in a primate species.
Common marmosets were repeatedly treated with pramipexole either before,
coincidentally with, or after low-dose MPTP treatment designed to induce a
partial lesion of the substantia nigra. Animals pretreated with pramipexole had a
significantly greater number of surviving tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) positive
neurones in the pars compacta of the substantia nigra. Pramipexole pretreatment
also prevented degeneration of striatal dopamine terminals. Treatment with
pramipexole concurrently with MPTP or following MPTP did not prevent TH-positive 
cell loss. Pramipexole pretreatment appears to induce adaptive changes that
protect against dopaminergic cell loss in primates.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1471-4159.2005.03625.x 
PMID: 16464239  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

