

2590. Neuroscience. 2006;138(4):1397-406. Epub 2006 Jan 30.

Primary visual cortex neurons that contribute to resolve the aperture problem.

Guo K(1), Robertson R, Nevado A, Pulgarin M, Mahmoodi S, Young MP.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Neuroscience and Psychology, Brain and Behaviour Group, School
of Biology, Henry Wellcome Building for Neuroecology, University of Newcastle,
Newcastle upon Tyne NE2 4HH, UK. kguo@lincoln.ac.uk

It is traditional to believe that neurons in primary visual cortex are sensitive 
only or principally to stimulation within a spatially restricted receptive field 
(classical receptive field). It follows from this that they should only be
capable of encoding the direction of stimulus movement orthogonal to the local
contour, since this is the only information available in their classical
receptive field "aperture." This direction is not necessarily the same as the
motion of the entire object, as the direction cue within an aperture is ambiguous
to the global direction of motion, which can only be derived by integrating with 
unambiguous components of the object. Recent results, however, show that primary 
visual cortex neurons can integrate spatially and temporally distributed cues
outside the classical receptive field, and so we reexamined whether primary
visual cortex neurons suffer the "aperture problem." With the stimulation of an
optimally oriented bar drifting across the classical receptive field in different
global directions, here we show that a subpopulation of primary visual cortex
neurons (25/81) recorded from anesthetized and paralyzed marmosets is capable of 
integrating informative unambiguous direction cues presented by the bar ends,
well outside their classical receptive fields, to encode global motion direction.
Although the stimuli within the classical receptive field were identical, their
directional responses were significantly modulated according to the global
direction of stimulus movement. Hence, some primary visual cortex neurons are not
local motion energy filters, but may encode signals that contribute directly to
global motion processing.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2005.12.016 
PMID: 16446037  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2591. J Comp Neurol. 2006 Mar 10;495(2):149-72.

Cytoarchitectonic subdivisions of the dorsolateral frontal cortex of the marmoset
monkey (Callithrix jacchus), and their projections to dorsal visual areas.

Burman KJ(1), Palmer SM, Gamberini M, Rosa MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Victoria 3800, Australia.
kathleen.burman@med.monash.edu.au

We describe the organization of the dorsolateral frontal areas in marmoset
monkeys using a combination of architectural methods (Nissl, cytochrome oxidase, 
and myelin stains) and injections of fluorescent tracers in extrastriate areas
(the second visual area [V2], the dorsomedial and dorsoanterior areas [DM, DA],
the middle temporal area and middle temporal crescent [MT, MTc], and the
posterior parietal cortex [area 7]). Cytoarchitectural field 8 comprises three
subdivisions: 8Av, 8Ad, and 8B. The ventrolateral subdivision, 8Av, forms the
principal source of frontal projections to the "dorsal stream," having
connections with each of the injected visual areas. The cytoarchitectural
characteristics of 8Av suggest that this subdivision corresponds to the
marmoset's frontal eye field. The intermediate subdivision of area 8 (8Ad) has
efferent projections to area 7, while the dorsomedial subdivision (8B) has few or
no connections with extrastriate cortex. Area 46, located rostrolateral to area
8Av, has substantial connections with the medial extrastriate areas (DM, DA, and 
area 7) and with MT, while the cortex lateral to 8Av (area 12/45) projects
primarily to MT and to the MTc. The rostromedial prefrontal (area 9) and
frontopolar (area 10) regions have very few extrastriate projections. Finally,
cells in dorsal area 6 (6d) have sparse projections to DM, MT, and the MTc, as
well as strong projections to DA and to area 7. These results illuminate aspects 
of the evolutionary development of the primate frontal cortex, and serve as a
basis for further research into cognitive functions using a marmoset model.

Copyright 2006 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.20837 
PMID: 16435289  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

