

2594. Am J Primatol. 2006 Feb;68(2):181-8.

Pattern of maternal serum corticotropin-releasing hormone concentration during
pregnancy in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Power ML(1), Bowman ME, Smith R, Ziegler TE, Layne DG, Schulkin J, Tardif SD.

Author information: 
(1)Smithsonian's National Zoological Park, Washington, DC 20008, USA.
POWERM@nzp.si.edu

Corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH), a potent neuropeptide, is produced by the 
placenta of anthropoid primates. No other mammals, including prosimian primates, 
are known to produce placental CRH. In humans, placental CRH appears to play an
important role in the progression of pregnancy to parturition. Maternal
circulating CRH begins to rise early in pregnancy and increases until
parturition. Gorillas and chimpanzees share this pattern of increasing maternal
CRH during pregnancy with humans. In humans, chimpanzees, and gorillas, maternal 
CRH and estradiol concentrations are correlated, consistent with the hypothesis
that CRH is involved in the biosynthetic pathway for placental estrogen
production. In contrast, in baboons, maternal circulating CRH rises precipitously
early in pregnancy and then declines, though CRH is detectable until birth. This 
research was designed to investigate the pattern of maternal circulating CRH in
the common marmoset during pregnancy. Blood samples were taken across gestation
from nine subjects over 11 pregnancies, and the plasma was assayed for CRH. The
pattern of maternal circulating CRH in the common marmoset was similar to that of
the baboon, with a rapid rise starting at about 50 days postconception and a peak
at approximately 70 days postconception. By 110 days postconception, CRH
concentration had plateaued at a significantly lower value. The peak and mean
values for CRH were associated with fetal number (e.g., females gestating
triplets had higher values than females gestating twins). Urinary estradiol
showed no association with plasma CRH concentration. Marmosets appear to differ
from the great apes in this regard, and to share a pattern of maternal CRH during
pregnancy with the baboon, indicating that the baboon and marmoset pattern may be
ancestral. The function of the early rapid rise of CRH in baboons and marmosets, 
and the significance of this difference between monkeys and apes, are not known.

Copyright 2006 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20215 
PMID: 16429419  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2595. Am J Phys Anthropol. 2006 Aug;130(4):529-35.

Forelimb and hindlimb forces in walking and galloping primates.

Hanna JB(1), Polk JD, Schmitt D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Anthropology and Anatomy, Duke University Medical
Center, Durham, North Carolina 27710, USA. jbh6@duke.edu

One trait that distinguishes the walking gaits of most primates from those of
most mammalian nonprimates is the distribution of weight between the forelimbs
and hindlimbs. Nonprimate mammals generally experience higher vertical peak
substrate reaction forces on the forelimb than on the hindlimb. Primates, in
contrast, generally experience higher vertical peak substrate reaction forces on 
the hindlimb than on the forelimb. It is currently unclear whether this unusual
pattern of force distribution characterizes other primate gaits as well. The
available kinetic data for galloping primates are limited and present an
ambiguous picture about peak-force distribution among the limbs. The present
study investigates whether the pattern of forelimb-to-hindlimb force distribution
seen during walking in primates is also displayed during galloping. Six species
of primates were video-recorded during walking and galloping across a runway or
horizontal pole instrumented with a force-plate. The results show that while the 
force differences between forelimb and hindlimb are not significantly different
from zero during galloping, the pattern of force distribution is generally the
same during walking and galloping for most primate species. These patterns and
statistical results are similar to data collected during walking on the ground.
The pattern of limb differentiation exhibited by primates during walking and
galloping stands in contrast to the pattern seen in most nonprimate mammals, in
which forelimb forces are significantly higher. The data reported here and by
Demes et al. ([1994] J. Hum. Evol. 26:353-374) suggest that a relative reduction 
of forelimb vertical peak forces is part of an overall difference in locomotor
mechanics between most primates and most nonprimate mammals during both walking
and galloping.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.20385 
PMID: 16425190  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

