

2595. Am J Phys Anthropol. 2006 Aug;130(4):529-35.

Forelimb and hindlimb forces in walking and galloping primates.

Hanna JB(1), Polk JD, Schmitt D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Anthropology and Anatomy, Duke University Medical
Center, Durham, North Carolina 27710, USA. jbh6@duke.edu

One trait that distinguishes the walking gaits of most primates from those of
most mammalian nonprimates is the distribution of weight between the forelimbs
and hindlimbs. Nonprimate mammals generally experience higher vertical peak
substrate reaction forces on the forelimb than on the hindlimb. Primates, in
contrast, generally experience higher vertical peak substrate reaction forces on 
the hindlimb than on the forelimb. It is currently unclear whether this unusual
pattern of force distribution characterizes other primate gaits as well. The
available kinetic data for galloping primates are limited and present an
ambiguous picture about peak-force distribution among the limbs. The present
study investigates whether the pattern of forelimb-to-hindlimb force distribution
seen during walking in primates is also displayed during galloping. Six species
of primates were video-recorded during walking and galloping across a runway or
horizontal pole instrumented with a force-plate. The results show that while the 
force differences between forelimb and hindlimb are not significantly different
from zero during galloping, the pattern of force distribution is generally the
same during walking and galloping for most primate species. These patterns and
statistical results are similar to data collected during walking on the ground.
The pattern of limb differentiation exhibited by primates during walking and
galloping stands in contrast to the pattern seen in most nonprimate mammals, in
which forelimb forces are significantly higher. The data reported here and by
Demes et al. ([1994] J. Hum. Evol. 26:353-374) suggest that a relative reduction 
of forelimb vertical peak forces is part of an overall difference in locomotor
mechanics between most primates and most nonprimate mammals during both walking
and galloping.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.20385 
PMID: 16425190  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2596. NMR Biomed. 2006 Feb;19(1):41-9.

Monitoring of EAE onset and progression in the common marmoset monkey by
sequential high-resolution 3D MRI.

Boretius S(1), Schmelting B, Watanabe T, Merkler D, Tammer R, Czéh B, Michaelis
T, Frahm J, Fuchs E.

Author information: 
(1)Biomedizinische NMR Forschungs GmbH am Max-Planck-Institut für
Biophysikalische Chemie, 37070 Göttingen, Germany. sboreti@gwdg.de

Experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) induced by myelin-oligodendrocyte
glycoprotein (MOG) in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) is a model for
multiple sclerosis. Here, EAE was induced in four common marmosets by 250-300
microg recombinant rat MOG. In addition to a detailed disability scoring, T2- and
T1-weighted high-resolution 3D MRI was performed to assess the onset and
development of cerebral lesions. The findings were confirmed by histopathology in
all animals. Although the animals exhibited a large heterogeneity with regard to 
onset and localization of lesions and also to disease duration and severity of
disability signs, none of the animals revealed any evidence of recovery. A
specification of the disability scoring system to account for different aspects
of the disease led to a good concurrence of the first MRI-detectable lesion and
the onset of central nervous system (CNS) symptoms. The results suggest that MRI 
monitoring of white matter lesions in conjunction with disability scores that
focus on CNS symptoms may be a suitable method to evaluate novel therapeutic
interventions even in the presence of pronounced interindividual heterogeneity.
