

2597. Mol Cell Endocrinol. 2006 Feb 26;246(1-2):107-13. Epub 2006 Jan 6.

Expression of steroid hormone receptors, proliferation and apoptotic markers in
primate endometrium.

Narkar M(1), Kholkute S, Chitlange S, Nandedkar T.

Author information: 
(1)Cell Biology Division, National Institute for Research in Reproductive Health 
(ICMR), J.M. Street, Parel, Mumbai 400 012, India.

In humans, circulating levels of steroid hormones vary during the menstrual
cycle, with oestrogen elevated in the proliferative phase and progesterone
increased during the secretory phase. In humans, oestrogen levels also increased 
during the mid-secretory phase, but this is not observed in non-human primates.
In marmosets, the New World monkeys, plasma oestrogen and progesterone levels
exhibit similar profiles as those found in Old World monkeys, however, these
animals do not menstruate. Proliferative and apoptotic changes occur at specific 
phases of the menstrual cycle, suggesting regulation by steroid hormones. It was,
therefore, of interest to compare expression of steroid hormone receptors,
proliferation and apoptotic markers in the uterine endometrium of marmosets and
humans. Localization of oestrogen receptor-alpha (ER-alpha) was observed in
glandular epithelial cells during the proliferative phase in marmosets and in
human endometria. A decrease in ER-alpha and progesterone receptor (PR-A) was
observed during the mid luteal phase in both species although a postovulatory
oestradiol peak is observed in human but not in marmoset. A decrease in PR-A in
the late secretory phase was seen in marmoset as well as in human endometria. The
proliferation marker PCNA was enhanced in the proliferative phase in both
species, but it was increased in late secretory phase only in marmosets.
Apoptosis as revealed by a TUNEL assay was moderate in early stage in both
species. Surprisingly, apoptosis, as well as the localization of the
pro-apoptotic Bcl-2 family member, Bax, was optimal in marmosets during the
mid-secretory phase when plasma progesterone levels were high. On the other hand,
in the human, apoptosis was maximal by TUNEL assay in late secretory phase, but
Bax protein was highest in the mid-secretory phase. Thus, Bax may be initiating
apoptosis in the endometrial glands as well as in the stroma. Although the
pattern of steroid receptor expression in endometria of marmosets and humans are 
similar, proliferation and apoptosis markers appear to be regulated by other
factors along with steroid hormones.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mce.2005.11.029 
PMID: 16406267  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2598. Acta Virol. 2005;49(4):227-34.

Inhibition of Measles virus multiplication in cell culture by RNA interference.

Hu L(1), Wang Z, Hu C, Liu X, Yao L, Li W, Qi Y.

Author information: 
(1)National Key Laboratory of Virology, College of Life Science, Wuhan
University, Wuhan 430072, P.R. China.

Measles takes a toll of one million people a year worldwide, especially in
developing countries. As the so far applied vaccines were not able to control
this disease, novel approaches to this problem are needed. In this study, we
investigated the possibility of inhibition of Measles virus (MV) infection
through RNA interference (RNAi), namely the interference with the second but main
receptor of MV, signaling lymphocyte activation molecule (SLAM), in an
Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-transformed marmoset B cell line B95-8. Three potential 
target sequences in the SLAM gene were chosen and cloned into the pSilencer
3.0-H1 vector. The vector constructs were used for transfection of B95-8 cells in
which SLAM was then detected by flow cytometry, Western blot analysis and RT-PCR 
both at transcription and expression levels. One of the vector constructs was
found to block effectively the SLAM expression as well as MV infection. These
results suggest that RNAi could silence SLAM expression and inhibit the MV
infection of host cells.


PMID: 16402679  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

