

2599. Brain Res Bull. 2006 Jan 30;68(5):315-21. Epub 2005 Oct 18.

Elucidating coding of taste qualities with the taste modifier miraculin in the
common marmoset.

Danilova V(1), Hellekant G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Animal Health and Biomedical Sciences, University of
Wisconsin-Madison, 1655 Linden Drive, Madison, WI 53706, USA.

To investigate the relationships between the activity in different types of taste
fibers and the gustatory behavior in marmosets, we used the taste modifier
miraculin, which in humans adds a sweet taste quality to sour stimuli. In
behavioral experiments, we measured marmosets' consumption of acids before and
after tongue application of miraculin. In electrophysiological experiments
responses of single taste fibers in chorda tympani and glossopharyngeal nerves
were recorded before and after tongue application of miraculin. We found that
after miraculin marmosets consumed acids more readily. Taste nerve recordings
showed that after miraculin taste fibers which usually respond only to
sweeteners, S fibers, became responsive to acids. These results further support
our hypothesis that the activity in S fibers is translated into a hedonically
positive behavioral response.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brainresbull.2005.09.008 
PMID: 16377437  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2600. Biol Reprod. 2006 Apr;74(4):706-13. Epub 2005 Dec 21.

Meiosis in autologous ectopic transplants of immature testicular tissue grafted
to Callithrix jacchus.

Wistuba J(1), Luetjens CM, Wesselmann R, Nieschlag E, Simoni M, Schlatt S.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Reproductive Medicine, University Münster, 48129 Münster,
Germany. joachim.wistuba@ukmuenster.de

Grafting of immature testicular tissue provides a tool to examine testicular
development and may offer a perspective for preservation of fertility in
prepubertal patients. Successful xenografting in mice, resulting in mature
spermatids, has been performed in several species but has failed with testicular 
tissues from the common marmoset, Callithrix jacchus. Previous data indicate that
the hormonal milieu provided by the mouse host might cause this failure. We
conducted autologous ectopic transplantation of testicular fragments under the
back skin in newborn marmoset monkeys. Seventeen months after transplantation, we
found viable transplants in 2 out of the 4 grafted animals. In the transplants,
tubules developed up to a state intermediate between the pregraft situation and
adult controls. Dividing spermatogonia and primary spermatocytes were present.
Boule-like positivity and CDC25A negativity indicated that spermatogenesis was
arrested at early meiosis. Immunohistochemistry revealed normal maturation of
Sertoli cells, Leydig cells, and peritubular cells. Serum testosterone values
were not restored to the normal range and bioactive chorionic gonadotropin levels
increased to castrate levels. Meiotic arrest could have occurred in the grafts
because of lack of sufficient testosterone or because of hyperthermia caused by
the ectopic position of the grafts. We conclude that autologous transplants of
immature testicular tissues in the marmoset can mature up to meiosis but that
normal serum testosterone levels are not restored. Further studies have to be
performed to overcome the meiotic arrest to explore the model further and to
develop therapeutic options.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod.105.048793 
PMID: 16371588  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

