

2604. Am J Primatol. 2005 Dec;67(4):487-95.

Color vision in marmosets and tamarins: behavioral evidence.

Pessoa DM(1), Tomaz C, Pessoa VF.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Neurosciences and Behavior and Primate Center, University of
Brasilia, Brazil. dpessoa@unb.br

Here we demonstrate differences in the relative performance of 15 callitrichids
tested in a series of color visual discrimination experiments. Munsell color
chips were chosen as stimuli based on their use in earlier experiments with human
dichromats. We show behavioral evidence for the existence of four distinct kinds 
of color-vision phenotypes, each of which has slightly different color
discrimination abilities. The different phenotypes may offer different
advantages. The data are in accordance with the existence of a visual
polymorphism in callitrichids.

Copyright 2005 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20202 
PMID: 16342075  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2605. Brain Res Bull. 2005 Dec 30;68(3):140-9. Epub 2005 Sep 7.

Marmoset monkey models of Parkinson's disease: which model, when and why?

Eslamboli A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, Cambridge University, Cambridge CB2
3EB, UK. Andisheh.2.Eslamboli@gsk.com

Parkinson's disease (PD) is a debilitating neurodegenerative disease, with
clinical features of tremor, muscular rigidity and akinesia, occurring as a
result of midbrain dopamine loss. The search for treatments has relied heavily on
animal models of the disorder. The use of monkey models of PD plays a distinct
role in the development and assessment of novel treatments. The common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus) is a popular New World monkey used in the search for new
treatments. These monkeys are easy to handle and survive well in captivity. This 
review examines the advantages of using marmoset monkeys in PD research and
examines the different models available with reference to their use in
pre-clinical assessment for novel therapeutic treatments. The most common models 
involve the administration of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)
or 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA). Recently, selective cerebral transgenic
over-expression of alpha-synuclein has also been attempted in marmosets as a
potential model for PD. Each model has its advantages. The MPTP-based model in
marmosets resembles the disease with regards to the neuroanatomy of
neurotransmitter loss; the unilateral application of 6-OHDA allows for the
assessment of more complex sensorimotor deficits due to the presence of an intact
'control' side; the over-expression of alpha-synuclein in the midbrain results in
the slow onset of behavioural symptoms allowing for a pre-symptomatic time
window. The appropriateness of each of these marmoset models for the assessment
of treatments depends on several factors including the experimental aim of the
study and whether emphasis is placed on the analysis of behavioural deficits.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brainresbull.2005.08.005 
PMID: 16325013  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

