

2612. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2005 Nov 29;102(48):17478-82. Epub 2005 Nov 18.

Experience induces structural and biochemical changes in the adult primate brain.

Kozorovitskiy Y(1), Gross CG, Kopil C, Battaglia L, McBreen M, Stranahan AM,
Gould E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08544, USA.

Primates exhibit complex social and cognitive behavior in the wild. In the
laboratory, however, the expression of their behavior is usually limited. A large
body of literature shows that living in an enriched environment alters dendrites 
and synapses in the brains of adult rodents. To date, no studies have
investigated the influence of living in a complex environment on brain structure 
in adult primates. We assessed dendritic architecture, dendritic spines, and
synaptic proteins in adult marmosets housed in either a standard laboratory cage 
or in one of two differentially complex habitats. A month-long stay in either
complex environment enhanced the length and complexity of the dendritic tree and 
increased dendritic spine density and synaptic protein levels in the hippocampus 
and prefrontal cortex. No differences were detected between the brains of
marmosets living in the two differentially complex environments. Our results show
that the structure of the adult primate brain remains highly sensitive even to
modest levels of experiential complexity. For adult primates, living in standard 
laboratory housing may induce reversible dendritic spine and synapse decreases in
brain regions important for cognition.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.0508817102 
PMCID: PMC1297690
PMID: 16299105  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2613. Cereb Cortex. 2006 Sep;16(9):1361-75. Epub 2005 Nov 16.

Quantitative analysis of the corticocortical projections to the middle temporal
area in the marmoset monkey: evolutionary and functional implications.

Palmer SM(1), Rosa MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Monash University Centre for Brain and Behaviour,
Monash University, Victoria 3800, Australia.

The connections of the middle temporal area (MT) were investigated in the
marmoset, one of the smallest primates. Reflecting the predictions of studies
that modeled cortical allometric growth and development, we found that in adult
marmosets MT is connected to a more extensive network of cortical areas than in
larger primates, including consistent connections with retrosplenial, cingulate, 
and parahippocampal areas and more widespread connections with temporal, frontal,
and parietal areas. Quantitative analyses reveal that MT receives the majority of
its afferents from other motion-sensitive areas in the temporal lobe and from the
occipitoparietal transition areas, each of these regions containing approximately
30% of the projecting cells. Projections from the primary visual area (V1) and
the second visual area (V2) account for approximately 20% of projecting neurons, 
whereas "ventral stream" and higher-order association areas form quantitatively
minor projections. A relationship exists between the percentage of supragranular 
layer neurons forming the projections from different areas and their putative
hierarchical rank. However, this relationship is clearer for projections from
ventral stream areas than it is for projections from dorsal stream or frontal
areas. These results provide the first quantitative data on the connections of MT
and extend current understanding of the relationship between cortical anatomy and
function in evolution.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhj078 
PMID: 16292001  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

