

2613. Cereb Cortex. 2006 Sep;16(9):1361-75. Epub 2005 Nov 16.

Quantitative analysis of the corticocortical projections to the middle temporal
area in the marmoset monkey: evolutionary and functional implications.

Palmer SM(1), Rosa MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Monash University Centre for Brain and Behaviour,
Monash University, Victoria 3800, Australia.

The connections of the middle temporal area (MT) were investigated in the
marmoset, one of the smallest primates. Reflecting the predictions of studies
that modeled cortical allometric growth and development, we found that in adult
marmosets MT is connected to a more extensive network of cortical areas than in
larger primates, including consistent connections with retrosplenial, cingulate, 
and parahippocampal areas and more widespread connections with temporal, frontal,
and parietal areas. Quantitative analyses reveal that MT receives the majority of
its afferents from other motion-sensitive areas in the temporal lobe and from the
occipitoparietal transition areas, each of these regions containing approximately
30% of the projecting cells. Projections from the primary visual area (V1) and
the second visual area (V2) account for approximately 20% of projecting neurons, 
whereas "ventral stream" and higher-order association areas form quantitatively
minor projections. A relationship exists between the percentage of supragranular 
layer neurons forming the projections from different areas and their putative
hierarchical rank. However, this relationship is clearer for projections from
ventral stream areas than it is for projections from dorsal stream or frontal
areas. These results provide the first quantitative data on the connections of MT
and extend current understanding of the relationship between cortical anatomy and
function in evolution.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhj078 
PMID: 16292001  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2614. J Androl. 2005 Nov-Dec;26(6):761-71.

Monoclonal antibody from vasectomized mouse identifies a conserved
testis-specific antigen TSA70.

Wakle MS(1), Joshi SA, Khole VV.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gamete Immuno Biology, National Institute for Research in
Reproductive Health, Parel, Mumbai 400012, India.

Vasectomy results in the occlusion of testicular outflow, leading to autoimmunity
characterized by the production of antisperm antibodies (ASA). Reports on the
rise in ASA following vasectomy in several species are available; however, not
much is known about the specific sperm autoantigens to which postvasectomy
antibodies are directed. In the present study, monoclonal antibodies were
generated using a vasectomized mouse. One of the monoclonal antibodies, D5E5,
identified an approximately 70-kd antigen localized on the principal piece of the
tail and also on the tip of the acrosome of mouse sperm. The cognate antigen was 
expressed postmeiotically in a stage-specific manner during spermiogenesis,
starting from step 8 of elongating spermatids during spermiogenesis up to mature 
spermatozoa. The protein was conserved across the species, as observed by its
presence in rat, bull, marmoset, and human sperm. Following capacitation, the
antigen on the head was seen to shift to the acrosomal region and was lost after 
the acrosome reaction. However, the localization on tip of the acrosome still
persisted, which indicates that the antigen may play a role post-acrosome
reaction in sperm egg interaction. Resistance to Triton X-100 solubilization
indicates that TSA70 could be an acrosomal matrix protein. In addition, we
observed a significant reduction in forward progressive motility of mouse sperm
treated in vitro with D5E5. In view of its testis specificity, acrosome and tail 
localization, and conserved nature, TSA70 is likely to play an important role in 
sperm function.

DOI: 10.2164/jandrol.05045 
PMID: 16291972  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

