

2616. Behav Processes. 2006 Jan 10;71(1):66-9. Epub 2005 Oct 24.

Rapid habituation of scan behavior in captive marmosets following brief predator 
encounters.

Dacier A(1), Maia R, Agustinho DP, Barros M.

Author information: 
(1)Primate Centre and Laboratory of Neuroscience and Behavior, University of
Brasilia, Brazil.

Scan behavior in 10 captive predator-naive adult black tufted-ear marmosets
(Callithrix penicillata) was investigated prior, during and following brief
predator encounters (taxidermized oncilla cat -- Leopardus tigrinus) versus
neutral stimulus exposures (stuffed toy). For each stimulus, three 9 min
home-cage trials were conducted > or = 72 h apart. Each trial was divided into
three consecutive 3 min intervals: pre-exposure baseline observation, stimulus
exposure, and post-exposure observation period. Post-exposure scan duration
increased during the first two predator confrontations, while scan frequency
increased significantly only after the first. Scan behavior remained constant
within the last predator encounter, as it also did within and between the three
neutral stimulus exposures. Although marmosets scanned more often and
significantly longer after encountering the predator than the neutral stimulus,
this response rapidly habituated by the second trial. Therefore, black tufted-ear
marmosets in a familiar environment rapidly habituate to brief repeated predator 
encounters, possibly minimizing anti-predation costs once the degree of a
potential threat has been adequately assessed.

DOI: 10.1016/j.beproc.2005.09.006 
PMID: 16246505  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2617. Curr Biol. 2005 Oct 25;15(20):1855-60.

Will travel for food: spatial discounting in two new world monkeys.

Stevens JR(1), Rosati AG, Ross KR, Hauser MD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, 
USA. jstevens@wjh.harvard.edu

Nonhuman animals steeply discount the future, showing a preference for small,
immediate over large, delayed rewards. Currently unclear is whether discounting
functions depend on context. Here, we examine the effects of spatial context on
discounting in cotton-top tamarins (Saguinus oedipus) and common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus), species known to differ in temporal discounting. We
presented subjects with a choice between small, nearby rewards and large, distant
rewards. Tamarins traveled farther for the large reward than marmosets, attending
to the ratio of reward differences rather than their absolute values. This
species difference contrasts with performance on a temporal task in which
marmosets waited longer than tamarins for the large reward. These comparative
data indicate that context influences choice behavior, with the strongest effect 
seen in marmosets who discounted more steeply over space than over time. These
findings parallel details of each species' feeding ecology. Tamarins range over
large distances and feed primarily on insects, which requires using quick,
impulsive action. Marmosets range over shorter distances than tamarins and feed
primarily on tree exudates, a clumped resource that requires patience to wait for
sap to exude. These results show that discounting functions are context specific,
shaped by a history of ecological pressures.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cub.2005.09.016 
PMCID: PMC8049090
PMID: 16243033  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

