

2618. Angiogenesis. 2005;8(2):101-16. Epub 2005 Oct 21.

Vascular morphogenesis in the primate ovary.

Fraser HM(1), Duncan WC.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Human Reproductive Sciences Unit, Centre for Reproductive Biology,
Edinburgh, UK. h.fraser@hrsu.mrc.ac.uk

Ovarian function is dependent on intense cyclical vascular morphogenesis and
regression. The molecular and cellular pathways involved in the generation of new
capillary networks in the ovary are now being elucidated. Focussing on the
marmoset, the course of angiogenesis at different stages of follicular maturation
and in the corpus luteum throughout the cycle and in early pregnancy have been
quantified and major progress has been made in the evaluation of the role of
vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF). To study the physiological role of
VEGF in follicular and luteal angiogenesis in detail, VEGF was inhibited during
defined stages of the cycle in vivo. VEGF antagonist administered throughout the 
follicular phase of the cycle resulted in a marked decrease in endothelial cell
proliferation in developing antral follicles, accompanied by a decline in
granulosa cell proliferation, restriction of follicular growth and inhibition of 
ovulation. An outstanding feature in the ovary is the intense angiogenesis that
occurs during the early luteal phase. VEGF inhibitors markedly suppressed this
angiogenesis, resulting in a marked restriction in the development of the
microvascular tree and suppression of plasma progesterone. These studies showed
that VEGF is essential for normal follicular and luteal angiogenesis and
function, and demonstrated how luteal angiogenesis in particular could serve as a
sensitive bioassay for putative angiogenic antagonists. Antagonists of VEGF are
potent tools for investigating the role of angiogenic factors within the ovary
and may have applications to the treatment of reproductive disorders
characterised by alterations in normal vascular structure or function.

DOI: 10.1007/s10456-005-9004-y 
PMID: 16240058  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2619. Anat Rec A Discov Mol Cell Evol Biol. 2005 Dec;287(2):1213-25.

Optical imaging of functional organization of V1 and V2 in marmoset visual
cortex.

Roe AW(1), Fritsches K, Pettigrew JD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tennessee 37203,
USA. anna.roe@vanderbilt.edu

Using optical imaging of intrinsic cortical signals, we examined the functional
organization of visual cortical areas V1 and V2 of the marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus). Previous studies have reported that adult marmosets do not have ocular 
dominance columns (ODCs); however, recent studies have called this into question.
Using optical imaging methods, we examined whether ODCs could be detected in
adult marmosets. We found evidence for functional ODCs in some marmosets but not 
in others. The activation patterns, when present, were relatively weak and
appeared as a mosaic of irregular bands or islands. Consistent with studies in
other New World monkeys, these data suggest the presence of ODC variability
within the marmoset population. Orientation maps in V1 revealed iso-orientation
domains organized in semicontinuous bands oriented orthogonal to the V1/V2
border, a pattern unlike that in Macaque monkey. The presence of directional
preference maps in V1 was also suggested. In V2, similar to V2 in Macaque
monkeys, stripe-like regions of orientation selectivity overlay the pale
cytochrome oxidase regions of V2; zones not selective for orientation overlay the
cytochrome thin stripes. However, unlike Macaques, we did not observe clear
evidence for orientation maps overlying thick cytochrome oxidase stripes. In sum,
our data suggest that significant organizational differences exist between the
organization of V1 and V2 in the marmoset and that of Old World primates.
Implications for the establishment of functional ocular dominance columns, the
coestablishment of multiple featural maps, and cortical magnification factors are
discussed.

Copyright (c) 2005 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ar.a.20248 
PMID: 16235264  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

