

2619. Anat Rec A Discov Mol Cell Evol Biol. 2005 Dec;287(2):1213-25.

Optical imaging of functional organization of V1 and V2 in marmoset visual
cortex.

Roe AW(1), Fritsches K, Pettigrew JD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tennessee 37203,
USA. anna.roe@vanderbilt.edu

Using optical imaging of intrinsic cortical signals, we examined the functional
organization of visual cortical areas V1 and V2 of the marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus). Previous studies have reported that adult marmosets do not have ocular 
dominance columns (ODCs); however, recent studies have called this into question.
Using optical imaging methods, we examined whether ODCs could be detected in
adult marmosets. We found evidence for functional ODCs in some marmosets but not 
in others. The activation patterns, when present, were relatively weak and
appeared as a mosaic of irregular bands or islands. Consistent with studies in
other New World monkeys, these data suggest the presence of ODC variability
within the marmoset population. Orientation maps in V1 revealed iso-orientation
domains organized in semicontinuous bands oriented orthogonal to the V1/V2
border, a pattern unlike that in Macaque monkey. The presence of directional
preference maps in V1 was also suggested. In V2, similar to V2 in Macaque
monkeys, stripe-like regions of orientation selectivity overlay the pale
cytochrome oxidase regions of V2; zones not selective for orientation overlay the
cytochrome thin stripes. However, unlike Macaques, we did not observe clear
evidence for orientation maps overlying thick cytochrome oxidase stripes. In sum,
our data suggest that significant organizational differences exist between the
organization of V1 and V2 in the marmoset and that of Old World primates.
Implications for the establishment of functional ocular dominance columns, the
coestablishment of multiple featural maps, and cortical magnification factors are
discussed.

Copyright (c) 2005 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ar.a.20248 
PMID: 16235264  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2620. Vis Neurosci. 2005 Jul-Aug;22(4):479-91.

Spatial coding and response redundancy in parallel visual pathways of the
marmoset Callithrix jacchus.

Forte JD(1), Hashemi-Nezhad M, Dobbie WJ, Dreher B, Martin PR.

Author information: 
(1)National Vision Research Institute of Australia, Cnr Keppel & Cardigan
Streets, Carlton, and the Department of Optometry and Vision Sciences, The
University of Melbourne, Parkville, Australia.

Many neurons in the primary visual cortex (area V1) show pronounced selectivity
for the orientation and spatial frequency of visual stimuli, whereas most neurons
in subcortical afferent streams show little selectivity for these stimulus
attributes. It has been suggested that this transformation is a functional sign
of increased coding efficiency, whereby the redundancy (or overlap in response
properties) is reduced at consecutive levels of visual processing. Here we
compared experimentally the response redundancy in area V1 with that in the three
main dorsal thalamic afferent streams, the parvocellular (PC), koniocellular
(KC), and magnocellular (MC) divisions of the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus
(LGN) in marmosets. The spatial frequency and orientation tuning of single cells 
in the LGN and area V1 were measured, using luminance contrast sine-wave
gratings. A joint spatial frequency-orientation response selectivity profile was 
calculated for each cell. Response redundancy for each population was estimated
by cross-multiplication of the joint selectivity profiles for pairs of cells. We 
show that when estimated in this way, redundancy in LGN neurons is approximately 
double that of neurons in cortical area V1. However, there are differences
between LGN subdivisions, such that the KC pathway has a spatial representation
that lies between the redundant code of the PC and MC pathways and the more
efficient sparse spatial code of area V1.

DOI: 10.1017/S0952523805224094 
PMID: 16212705  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

