

2624. Behav Brain Res. 2006 Jan 30;166(2):253-62. Epub 2005 Sep 27.

Neglect of memory after dopaminergic lesions in monkeys.

Ridley RM(1), Cummings RM, Leow-Dyke A, Baker HF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, Downing Street, Cambridge CB2 3EB, UK.

Crossed unilateral dopaminergic lesions of the nigrostriatal bundle and
unilateral inferotemporal cortex ablations (DA x IT lesions) in marmoset monkeys 
produced impaired retention of object discriminations first learnt before, or
after, the DA lesion but no impairment on new learning of the same type of task. 
Retention testing of a pre-operatively learned task was given after new learning 
of a different task so impairment cannot be attributed to improvement with
practice or spontaneous recovery. We argue that the DA lesion produces a form of 
intentional neglect, a defect of volition, which is the mnemonic counterpart of
the volitional neglect of directional hypokinesia, which animals with this lesion
also exhibit. The DA lesion was unilateral (for welfare reasons) so the
information to be retrieved had to be confined to that hemisphere by the use of
an IT ablation in the other hemisphere. Unilateral DA lesion compromises the
competence of ipsilateral fronto-striatal interactions and our results parallel
those found in monkeys with crossed IT x frontal lesions that are impaired on
complex tasks requiring effortful implementation of a cognitive strategy but are 
not impaired on discrimination learning. Parkinsonian patients with sub-total but
bilateral DA loss may lack 'top-down' conative mechanisms as well as 'top-down'
movement initiation mechanisms. They may fail to initiate retrieval strategies,
although they may not exhibit retrograde amnesia under test conditions that
provoke retrieval. Failure to self-initiate retrieval of relevant knowledge may
contribute to the paucity of cognitive style and loss of executive skills
exhibited by some patients with Parkinson's disease.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2005.08.007 
PMID: 16198007  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2625. Birth Defects Res B Dev Reprod Toxicol. 2005 Oct;74(5):450-69.

Review on testicular development, structure, function, and regulation in common
marmoset.

Li LH(1), Donald JM, Golub MS.

Author information: 
(1)Reproductive and Cancer Hazard Assessment Section Branch, Office of
Environmental Health Hazard Assessment, California Environmental Protection
Agency, Sacramento, California 95812, USA. lli@oehha.ca.gov

BACKGROUND: The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is a New World primate that 
has been used increasingly in toxicological evaluations including testing for
testicular toxicity of pharmaceutical and environmental chemicals. Information on
structural and functional characteristics of the testis in common marmosets
("marmoset" in this review) is critical for designing experiments, interpreting
data collected, and determining relevance to humans in risk assessment.
METHODS: This study provides a comprehensive review on testicular development,
structure, function, and regulation in common marmosets.
RESULTS: There is little information regarding testicular formation and
development during gestation. Based on the overall pattern of embryonic
development in marmosets, it is postulated that gonadal formation and testicular 
differentiation most likely takes place during gestational Week 6-12. After
birth, the neonatal period of the first 2-3 weeks and the pubertal period from
Months 6-12 are critical for establishment of spermatogenesis in the adult. In
the adult, a nine-stage model has been used to describe the organization of
seminiferous epithelium and multiple stages per tubular cross-section have been
observed. Seminiferous epithelium is organized in a wave or partial-wave manner. 
There are on average two stages per cross-section of seminiferous tubules in
adult marmoset testis. Sertoli cells in the marmoset have a uniform morphology.
Marmoset spermatogenesis has a high efficiency. The prime determinant of germ
cell production is proliferation and survival of spermatogonia. Sertoli cell
proliferation during the neonatal period is regulated by follicle-stimulating
hormone (FSH), but chorionic gonadotropin (CG), instead of luteinizing hormone
(LH), is the only gonadotropin with luteinizing function in marmoset. The
receptor gene for CG in marmoset is unique in that it does not have exon 10.
Marmosets have a "generalized steroid hormone resistance," i.e., relatively high 
levels of steroid hormones in circulation and relatively low response to
exogenous steroids. Blockage of FSH, CG, and testosterone production during the
first 3 months after birth does not cause permanent damage to the male
reproductive system. Initiation of spermatogenesis in the marmoset requires
unique factors that are probably not present in other mammals. Normal male
marmosets respond to estradiol injection positively (increased LH or CG levels), 
a pattern seen in normal females or castrated males, but not usually in normal
males of other mammalian species.
CONCLUSIONS: It seems that the endocrine system including the testis in marmosets
has some unique features that have not been observed in rodents, Old World
primates, and humans, but detailed comparison in these features among these
species will be presented in another review. Based on the data available,
marmoset seems to be an interesting model for comparative studies. However,
interpretation of experimental findings on the testicular effects in marmosets
should be made with serious caution. Depending on potential mode of testicular
actions of the chemical under investigation, marmoset may have very limited value
in predicting potential testicular or steroid hormone-related endocrine effects
of test chemicals in humans.

Copyright 2005 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/bdrb.20057 
PMID: 16193499  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

