

2628. Eur J Endocrinol. 2005 Oct;153(4):605-12.

GnRH-II receptor-like antigenicity in human placenta and in cancers of the human 
reproductive organs.

Eicke N(1), Günthert AR, Viereck V, Siebold D, Béhé M, Becker T, Emons G,
Gründker C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, Georg-August-University,
Robert-Koch-Street 40, D-37075 Göttingen, Germany.

We have recently demonstrated that the antiproliferative activity of GnRH-II on
human endometrial and ovarian cancer cell lines is not mediated through the
GnRH-I receptor. A functional receptor for human GnRH-II has not yet been
identified. In this study, we have generated a polyclonal antiserum to the
putative human GnRH-II receptor using a peptide (YSPTMLTEVPPC) corresponding to
the third extracellular domain coupled to keyhole limpet haemocyanin via the Cys 
residue. A database search showed no identical peptide sequences in any other
human gene. To avoid cross-reactions against two similar amino acid sequences the
antiserum was pre-absorbed using these peptides. Immune histological sections of 
human placenta and human endometrial, ovarian and prostate cancers using rabbit
anti-human GnRH-II receptor antiserum showed GnRH-II receptor-like staining.
Western blot analysis of cell membrane preparations of human endometrial and
ovarian cancer cell lines yielded a band at approximately 43 kDa whereas Western 
blot analysis of cell membrane preparations of ovaries obtained from the marmoset
monkey (Callithrix jacchus) yielded a band at approximately 54 kDa. To identify
the GnRH-II receptor-like antigen we used the photo-affinity labelling technique.
Photochemical reaction of (125)I-labelled
(4-azidobenzoyl)-N-hydroxysuccinimide-[d-Lys(6)]-GnRH-II (10(-9) M) with cell
membrane preparations of human endometrial and ovarian cancer cells yielded a
band at approximately 43 kDa. In competition experiments, the GnRH-I agonist
Triptorelin (10(-7) M) showed a weak decrease of (125)I-labelled
(4-azidobenzoyl)-N-hydroxysuccinimide-[d-Lys(6)]-GnRH-II binding to its binding
site. The GnRH-I antagonist Cetrorelix (10(-7) M) showed a clearly stronger
decrease, whereas GnRH-II agonist [d-Lys(6)]-GnRH-II (10(-7) M) was the most
potent competitor. Western blot analysis of the same gel using rabbit anti-human 
GnRH-II receptor antiserum identified this band as GnRH-II receptor-like antigen.

DOI: 10.1530/eje.1.02005 
PMID: 16189182  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2629. Neuroscience. 2005;136(1):231-40. Epub 2005 Sep 21.

Mossy cells and different subpopulations of pyramidal neurons are immunoreactive 
for cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript peptide in the hippocampal
formation of non-human primates and tree shrew (Tupaia belangeri).

Abrahám H(1), Czéh B, Fuchs E, Seress L.

Author information: 
(1)Central Electron Microscopic Laboratory, University of Pécs, Faculty of
Medicine, Szigeti u. 12, P.O. Box. 99, 7643 Pécs, Hungary.

Cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript peptide mRNA was discovered in the 
rat striatum following cocaine and amphetamine administration. Since both
psychostimulants elicit memory-related effects, localization of cocaine- and
amphetamine-regulated transcript peptide in the hippocampal formation may have
functional importance. Previous studies demonstrated different cellular
localizations of cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript peptide in humans 
and in rodents. Mossy cells were cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated
transcript-positive in the human dentate gyrus, whereas granule cells contained
this peptide in the rat. In the present study, the localization of cocaine- and
amphetamine-regulated transcript peptide was examined using immunohistochemistry 
in the hippocampal formation of the rhesus monkey (Macaca mulatta), the common
marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus) and in the tree shrew (Tupaia belangeri). In
these species principal neurons of the hippocampal formation were cocaine- and
amphetamine-regulated transcript-immunoreactive. In both monkeys and tree shrews,
mossy cells of the hilus were cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated
transcript-positive whereas granule cells of the dentate gyrus were cocaine- and 
amphetamine-regulated transcript-negative. The dense cocaine- and
amphetamine-regulated transcript-immunoreactive axonal plexus of the
associational pathway outlined the inner one-third of the dentate molecular
layer. In the hippocampus of the tree shrew and marmoset monkey, a subset of CA3 
pyramidal cells were cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated
transcript-immunoreactive. In the marmoset monkey, cocaine- and
amphetamine-regulated transcript labeling was found only in layer V pyramidal
cells of the entorhinal cortex, while in the rhesus monkey, pyramidal cells of
layers II and III were cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated
transcript-immunopositive. Our results show that cocaine- and
amphetamine-regulated transcript positive neurons in the dentate gyrus of
non-human primates are similar to that of the human. Furthermore, in the
hippocampal formation of the tree shrew similar cocaine- and
amphetamine-regulated transcript-immunoreactive cell-types were observed as in
monkeys, supporting their evolutionary relationship with primates. Mossy cells
and granule cells are members of a mutual excitatory intrahippocampal circuitry, 
therefore cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript-immunoreactivity of these
neurons in primates and rodents suggests that psychostimulants cocaine and
amphetamine may induce memory-related effects at different points of the same
excitatory circuitry in the hippocampal formation.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2005.07.030 
PMID: 16181735  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

