

2630. Endocrinology. 2006 Jan;147(1):615-23. Epub 2005 Sep 22.

Gonadotropin-releasing hormone II stimulates female sexual behavior in marmoset
monkeys.

Barnett DK(1), Bunnell TM, Millar RP, Abbott DH.

Author information: 
(1)National Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wisconsin 
53715, USA. dbarnett@primate.wisc.edu

GnRH II (pGlu-His-Trp-Ser-Try-Gly-Leu-Arg-Pro-GlyNH2), an evolutionarily
conserved member of the GnRH family, stimulates reproductive behavior in a number
of vertebrates. To explore a role for GnRH II in regulating primate sexual
behavior, eight adult female common marmosets, each fitted with an indwelling
intracerebroventricular (icv) cannula, were ovariectomized, implanted
subcutaneously with empty (n = 4) or estradiol-filled (n = 4) SILASTIC brand
capsules, and pair housed with an adult male mate. After icv infusion of vehicle 
or peptides, females were placed in an observation cage for 90 min, out of visual
contact with other marmosets, before the 30-min behavioral test with their male
partner. Compared with vehicle, GnRH II (1 and 10 microg) increased the total
number of proceptive (sexual solicitation) behaviors (tongue flicking, proceptive
stares, and frozen postures) exhibited by females toward their pair mates and
specifically increased the frequency of freeze postures. Effects were maximal at 
1 microg and not dependent upon estradiol supplementation. GnRH II agonists/GnRH 
I antagonists 135-18 (1 microg) and 132-25 (1 microg), which stimulate inositol
phosphate production via the marmoset type II receptor, increased the frequency
of total proceptive behavior but did not specifically stimulate freeze-posture
behavior. In contrast, GnRH I, at 1 mug, did not alter the frequency of
proceptive behaviors. Female receptivity (female compliance with male sexual
behavior) was not altered by any of the peptides tested. These findings implicate
a role for GnRH II and the cognate GnRH type II receptor in stimulating female
marmoset sexual behavior.

DOI: 10.1210/en.2005-0662 
PMID: 16179411  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2631. Perception. 2005;34(8):967-74.

A continuous smooth map of space in the primary visual cortex of the common
marmoset.

McLoughlin N(1), Cotton P, Schiessl I.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Optometry and Neuroscience, University of Manchester Institute
of Science and Technology, PO Box 88, Manchester M60 1QD, UK.
n.mcloughlin@umist.ac.uk

We examined the fine-scale mapping of the visual world within the primary visual 
cortex of the marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus) using differential optical
imaging. We stimulated two sets of complementary stripe-like locations in turn,
subtracting them to generate the cortical representations of continuous bands of 
visual space. Rotating this stimulus configuration makes it possible to map
different spatial axes within the primary visual cortex. In a similar manner,
shifting the stimulated locations between trials makes it possible to map
retinotopy at an even finer scale. Using these methods we found no evidence of
any local anisotropies or distortions in the cortical representation of visual
space. This is despite the fact that orientation preference is mapped in a
discontinuous manner across the surface of marmoset V1. Overall, our results
indicate that space is mapped in a continuous and smooth manner in the primary
visual cortex of the common marmoset.

DOI: 10.1068/p5198 
PMID: 16178151  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

