

2634. Cell Immunol. 2005 Jul-Aug;236(1-2):115-22. Epub 2005 Sep 12.

Cross-reactivity of anti-human chemokine receptor and anti-TNF family antibodies 
with common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) leukocytes.

Kireta S(1), Zola H, Gilchrist RB, Coates PT.

Author information: 
(1)Transplantation Immunology Laboratory and Department of Medicine, University
of Adelaide, The Queen Elizabeth Hospital Campus, 28 Woodville Rd, Adelaide, SA
5011, Australia.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is a New World primate species
frequently employed for immunological models of human disease. We used flow
cytometry to screen a panel of new anti-human antibodies from the HLDA8 workshop 
to establish cross-reactivity with marmoset peripheral blood mononuclear cells.
Seventy-seven antibodies were screened of which nine antibodies showed binding.
Cross-reactivity of anti-human monoclonal antibodies with CC and CXC chemokine
receptors CCR3, CCR6, CCR7, and CCR8 was demonstrated on untreated marmoset
mononuclear cells. Stimulation of marmoset mononuclear cells with ConA and/or
PMA-ionomycin resulted in an up-regulated expression of CXCR1, CXCR3, and CXCR4. 
The expression of TNF-family related molecules TACI and APRIL on marmoset
mononuclear cells was also identified. These studies extend the range of
cross-reactive antibodies to now include anti-chemokine and anti-TNF family
antibodies for this important pre-clinical model species and should provide
useful tools for investigation of immunological processes in marmoset monkey
models.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cellimm.2005.08.017 
PMID: 16165115  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2635. Am J Primatol. 2005 Sep;67(1):37-50.

Behavioral strategies and hormonal profiles of dominant and subordinate common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) females in wild monogamous groups.

Sousa MB(1), Albuquerque AC, Albuquerque Fda S, Araujo A, Yamamoto ME, Arruda Mde
F.

Author information: 
(1)Curso de Pós-graduação em Psicobiologia, Departamento de Fisiologia,
Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, Brazil. mdesousa@cb.ufrn.br

New insights into the mating systems of common marmosets suggest that they are
mainly monogamous, although polygyny and polyandry occasionally occur. Long-term 
monitoring of wild common marmosets has shown that some reports of polygynous
groups (i.e., groups that contain more than one reproducing female) in fact
indicate an unbalanced reproductive output associated with extragroup copulation.
In this study we describe the behavioral and hormonal profiles of common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus) females living in three wild monogamous groups (Q, PBf, and 
T), varying from five to 11 individuals, at Nísia Floresta field station, RN,
Brazil. The mating system of the groups was previously characterized in terms of 
affiliative, sexual, and mate-guarding behaviors. Behavioral data were collected 
once a week, and fecal samples were collected at least twice a week for 10-16
months, depending on the group. A preferential allogrooming relationship was
recorded between dominant males and females. Under field conditions the
reproductive inhibition of subordinate females appears to be more behavioral than
hormonal, since subordinate females of the three groups ovulated and two
conceived during the study. In these cases, the subordinate and dominant females 
reproduced 1 month apart, and infanticide (one case confirmed and one suspected) 
appeared to be part of the reproductive strategy of dominant females. Following
the infanticide, ovarian inhibition (group T) or emigration and return to the
natal group (group PBf) were observed. In the third group (Q) the subordinate
female showed hormonal profiles compatible with pregnancy, but no infants were
seen. These findings reflect the different alternatives that wild subordinate
common marmoset females use to reproduce.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20168 
PMID: 16163713  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

