

2638. Brain. 2005 Nov;128(Pt 11):2713-21. Epub 2005 Sep 8.

Demyelinated neocortical lesions in marmoset autoimmune encephalomyelitis mimic
those in multiple sclerosis.

Pomeroy IM(1), Matthews PM, Frank JA, Jordan EK, Esiri MM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuropathology, Radcliffe Infirmary, Oxford, UK.
ian.pomeroy@clneuro.ox.ac.uk

The use of immunohistochemical methods has led to a new understanding of the
prevalence and significance of cortical lesions in multiple sclerosis but these
lesions have not yet been formally described in an animal model. In this study we
have set out to use immunohistochemical techniques to identify and describe
cortical lesions in marmosets with experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis
(EAE). Using antibodies to proteolipid protein (PLP), we found a total of 70
cortical lesions in 11 tissue blocks from 6 animals. These lesions were
subdivided into leucocortical (40), intracortical (12) and subpial lesions (18). 
We quantified the density of inflammatory cells within lesions using a double
labelling protocol which employed anti-PLP in addition to antibodies against
markers of B-lymphocytes (CD20), T-lymphocytes (CD3), macrophages (MAC387) and
MHC-II expressing cells (CR3/43). This analysis revealed that the large subpial
lesions accounted for the majority of demyelinated cortex (88%) despite
possessing the lowest density of inflammatory cells. This study has shown that
lesions in this model share many of the major features of cortical lesions in
multiple sclerosis both in terms of morphology and inflammatory cell content. We 
believe that this tool can be exploited in future studies to investigate the
aetiology, development and clinical significance of cortical lesions in
demyelinating disease.

DOI: 10.1093/brain/awh626 
PMID: 16150849  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2639. J Circadian Rhythms. 2005 Sep 6;3:10.

Light-dark cycle synchronization of circadian rhythm in blind primates.

Silva MM(1), Albuquerque AM, Araujo JF.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Fisiologia, CB/UFRN, Natal, Brazil. mmytzi@yahoo.com.br

BACKGROUND: Recently, several papers have shown that a small subset of retinal
ganglion cells (RGCs), which project to the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) and
contain a new photopigment called melanopsin, are the photoreceptors involved in 
light-dark entrainment in rodents. In our primate colony, we found a couple of
common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) that had developed progressive and
spontaneous visual deficiency, most likely because of retinal degeneration of
cones and/or rods. In this study, we evaluated the photoresponsiveness of the
circadian system of these blind marmosets.
METHODS: Two blind and two normal marmosets were kept in cages with a controlled 
light-dark cycle (LD) to study photoentrainment, masking, and phase response to a
dark pulse.
RESULTS: Blind marmosets were entrained with the new LD cycle when light onsets
were delayed and advanced by 6 hours. In constant light conditions, blind
marmosets free-ran with a period of 23.2 hours, while normal animals free-ran
with a period of 23.6 hours. All marmosets responded to dark pulses in the early 
subjective day with phase delays and with phase advances in the late subjective
day.
CONCLUSION: Our results demonstrate that light can synchronize circadian rhythms 
of blind marmosets and consequently, that this species could be a good primate
model for circadian photoreception studies.

DOI: 10.1186/1740-3391-3-10 
PMCID: PMC1208936
PMID: 16144547 

