

2639. J Circadian Rhythms. 2005 Sep 6;3:10.

Light-dark cycle synchronization of circadian rhythm in blind primates.

Silva MM(1), Albuquerque AM, Araujo JF.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Fisiologia, CB/UFRN, Natal, Brazil. mmytzi@yahoo.com.br

BACKGROUND: Recently, several papers have shown that a small subset of retinal
ganglion cells (RGCs), which project to the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) and
contain a new photopigment called melanopsin, are the photoreceptors involved in 
light-dark entrainment in rodents. In our primate colony, we found a couple of
common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) that had developed progressive and
spontaneous visual deficiency, most likely because of retinal degeneration of
cones and/or rods. In this study, we evaluated the photoresponsiveness of the
circadian system of these blind marmosets.
METHODS: Two blind and two normal marmosets were kept in cages with a controlled 
light-dark cycle (LD) to study photoentrainment, masking, and phase response to a
dark pulse.
RESULTS: Blind marmosets were entrained with the new LD cycle when light onsets
were delayed and advanced by 6 hours. In constant light conditions, blind
marmosets free-ran with a period of 23.2 hours, while normal animals free-ran
with a period of 23.6 hours. All marmosets responded to dark pulses in the early 
subjective day with phase delays and with phase advances in the late subjective
day.
CONCLUSION: Our results demonstrate that light can synchronize circadian rhythms 
of blind marmosets and consequently, that this species could be a good primate
model for circadian photoreception studies.

DOI: 10.1186/1740-3391-3-10 
PMCID: PMC1208936
PMID: 16144547 


2640. Hum Reprod. 2006 Jan;21(1):240-7. Epub 2005 Sep 2.

Meiotic abnormalities in in vitro-matured marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus)
oocytes: development of a non-human primate model to investigate causal factors.

Delimitreva S(1), Zhivkova R, Isachenko E, Umland N, Nayudu PL.

Author information: 
(1)Human IVF Center, Department of Biology, Medical University, Sofia, 1431-
Bulgaria.

BACKGROUND: Meiotic abnormalities are thought to be a major causal factor of low 
embryo development rates, for embryos developed from in vitro-matured oocytes. A 
new non-human primate model, in the common marmoset, is being developed to
facilitate investigation of the mechanisms involved.
METHODS: Oocytes were dissected from antral follicles from three size classes.
They were allowed to mature in vitro for only 24 h, in order to focus the
investigation on the rapidly maturing oocytes. Chromosome spreads were visualized
with Giemsa staining, and spindles /chromosomes with fluorescently labelled
anti-alpha-tubulin antibody combined with a DNA fluorochrome.
RESULTS: 40% of the oocytes had reached metaphase II (MII) after 24 h. Of the MII
oocytes selected for karyotyping, readable chromosomal spreads were obtained from
64%. Overall, 63% of these presented a normal haploid chromosome number of 23,X, 
with all abnormal karyotypes occurring in the oocytes from small follicles. For
another group of MII oocytes, where meiotic spindles were visualized, only half
of the MII oocytes displayed well-formed spindles and apparently correct
chromosomal alignment.
CONCLUSIONS: This work provides the first information on the normal and aneuploid
MII meiotic chromosome sets for the marmoset oocyte, and demonstrates a high rate
of chromosomal and spindle abnormality among rapidly maturing oocytes from small 
antral follicles.

DOI: 10.1093/humrep/dei283 
PMID: 16143640  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

