

2640. Hum Reprod. 2006 Jan;21(1):240-7. Epub 2005 Sep 2.

Meiotic abnormalities in in vitro-matured marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus)
oocytes: development of a non-human primate model to investigate causal factors.

Delimitreva S(1), Zhivkova R, Isachenko E, Umland N, Nayudu PL.

Author information: 
(1)Human IVF Center, Department of Biology, Medical University, Sofia, 1431-
Bulgaria.

BACKGROUND: Meiotic abnormalities are thought to be a major causal factor of low 
embryo development rates, for embryos developed from in vitro-matured oocytes. A 
new non-human primate model, in the common marmoset, is being developed to
facilitate investigation of the mechanisms involved.
METHODS: Oocytes were dissected from antral follicles from three size classes.
They were allowed to mature in vitro for only 24 h, in order to focus the
investigation on the rapidly maturing oocytes. Chromosome spreads were visualized
with Giemsa staining, and spindles /chromosomes with fluorescently labelled
anti-alpha-tubulin antibody combined with a DNA fluorochrome.
RESULTS: 40% of the oocytes had reached metaphase II (MII) after 24 h. Of the MII
oocytes selected for karyotyping, readable chromosomal spreads were obtained from
64%. Overall, 63% of these presented a normal haploid chromosome number of 23,X, 
with all abnormal karyotypes occurring in the oocytes from small follicles. For
another group of MII oocytes, where meiotic spindles were visualized, only half
of the MII oocytes displayed well-formed spindles and apparently correct
chromosomal alignment.
CONCLUSIONS: This work provides the first information on the normal and aneuploid
MII meiotic chromosome sets for the marmoset oocyte, and demonstrates a high rate
of chromosomal and spindle abnormality among rapidly maturing oocytes from small 
antral follicles.

DOI: 10.1093/humrep/dei283 
PMID: 16143640  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2641. J Comp Physiol A Neuroethol Sens Neural Behav Physiol. 2006 Jan;192(1):27-38.
Epub 2005 Aug 31.

Sensory-motor interactions modulate a primate vocal behavior: antiphonal calling 
in common marmosets.

Miller CT(1), Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA.
ctmiller@bme.jhu.edu

A fundamental issue in neuroscience pertains to how different cortical systems
interact to generate behavior. One of the most direct ways to address this issue 
is to investigate how sensory information is encoded and used to produce a motor 
response. Antiphonal calling is a natural vocal behavior that involves
individuals producing their species-specific long distance vocalization in
response to hearing the same call and engages both the auditory and motor
systems, as well as the cognitive neural systems involved in decision making and 
categorization. Here we present results from a series of behavioral experiments
investigating the auditory-vocal interactions during antiphonal calling in the
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). We manipulated sensory input by placing
subjects in different social contexts and found that the auditory input had a
significant effect on call timing and propensity to call. Playback experiments
tested the significance of the timing of vocal production in antiphonal calling
and showed that a short latency between antiphonal calls was necessary to
maintain reciprocal vocal interactions. Overall, this study shows that
sensory-motor interactions can be experimentally induced and manipulated in a
natural primate vocal behavior. Antiphonal calling represents a promising model
system to examine these issues in non-human primates at both the behavioral and
neural levels.

DOI: 10.1007/s00359-005-0043-z 
PMID: 16133500  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

