

2649. Stem Cells. 2005 Oct;23(9):1304-13. Epub 2005 Aug 18.

Establishment of novel embryonic stem cell lines derived from the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus).

Sasaki E(1), Hanazawa K, Kurita R, Akatsuka A, Yoshizaki T, Ishii H, Tanioka Y,
Ohnishi Y, Suemizu H, Sugawara A, Tamaoki N, Izawa K, Nakazaki Y, Hamada H,
Suemori H, Asano S, Nakatsuji N, Okano H, Tani K.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Laboratory Animal Science, Central Institute for Experimental
Animals, Kanagawa, and Department of Urology, Urayasu Hospital, Juntendo
University, Chiba, Japan.

The successful establishment of human embryonic stem cell (hESC) lines has
inaugurated a new era in regenerative medicine by facilitating the
transplantation of differentiated ESCs to specific organs. However, problems with
the safety and efficacy of hESC therapy in vivo remain to be resolved.
Preclinical studies using animal model systems, including nonhuman primates, are 
essential to evaluate the safety and efficacy of hESC therapies. Previously, we
demonstrated that common marmosets are suitable laboratory animal models for
preclinical studies of hematopoietic stem cell therapies. As this animal model is
also applicable to preclinical trials of ESC therapies, we have established novel
common marmoset ESC (CMESC) lines. To obtain marmoset embryos, we developed a new
embryo collection system, in which blastocysts can be obtained every 3 weeks from
each marmoset pair. The inner cell mass was isolated by immunosurgery and plated 
on a mouse embryonic feeder layer. Some of the CMESC lines were cultured
continuously for more than 1 year. These CMESC lines showed alkaline phosphatase 
activity and expressed stage-specific embryonic antigen (SSEA)-3, SSEA-4,
TRA-1-60, and TRA-1-81. On the other hand, SSEA-1 was not detected. Furthermore, 
our novel CMESCs are pluripotent, as evidenced by in vivo teratoma formation in
immunodeficient mice and in vitro differentiation experiments. Our established
CMESC lines and the common marmoset provide an excellent experimental model
system for understanding differentiation mechanisms, as well as the development
of regenerative therapies using hESCs.

DOI: 10.1634/stemcells.2004-0366 
PMID: 16109758  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2650. Horm Behav. 2006 Feb;49(2):237-45. Epub 2005 Aug 15.

Mobbing vocalizations as a coping response in the common marmoset.

Cross N(1), Rogers LJ.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Animal Welfare and Ethics, School of Veterinary Science, University
of Queensland, Gatton, QLD 4343, Australia. n.cross@uq.edu.au

Using a non-invasive method of sampling saliva followed by assay for cortisol
levels, we found that common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) show a decrease in
cortisol levels after seeing a snake-model stimulus that reliably elicits mobbing
(tsik) calls. In fact, there was a significant positive correlation between the
number of tsik vocalizations made and the magnitude of the decrease in the
cortisol concentrations. Furthermore, marmosets with higher levels of cortisol
prior to being exposed to the stimulus produce more tsik calls than those with
lower levels of cortisol. Subsequent experiments showed that, in response to 15
min of isolation with no visual or auditory contact with conspecifics (a
traditional stressor), cortisol levels increased significantly. However, playback
of the mobbing calls of a familiar conspecific to individual isolated marmosets
not only prevented the rise in cortisol, but also actually caused a decrease in
the levels of this hormone. This suggests that the mobbing calls serve to calm
the marmoset after experiencing a stressful situation. This finding results in a 
greater understanding as to the role of physiological responses during
communication in this species and could have implications for the welfare of
marmosets in captivity.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2005.07.007 
PMID: 16102763  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

