

2650. Horm Behav. 2006 Feb;49(2):237-45. Epub 2005 Aug 15.

Mobbing vocalizations as a coping response in the common marmoset.

Cross N(1), Rogers LJ.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Animal Welfare and Ethics, School of Veterinary Science, University
of Queensland, Gatton, QLD 4343, Australia. n.cross@uq.edu.au

Using a non-invasive method of sampling saliva followed by assay for cortisol
levels, we found that common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) show a decrease in
cortisol levels after seeing a snake-model stimulus that reliably elicits mobbing
(tsik) calls. In fact, there was a significant positive correlation between the
number of tsik vocalizations made and the magnitude of the decrease in the
cortisol concentrations. Furthermore, marmosets with higher levels of cortisol
prior to being exposed to the stimulus produce more tsik calls than those with
lower levels of cortisol. Subsequent experiments showed that, in response to 15
min of isolation with no visual or auditory contact with conspecifics (a
traditional stressor), cortisol levels increased significantly. However, playback
of the mobbing calls of a familiar conspecific to individual isolated marmosets
not only prevented the rise in cortisol, but also actually caused a decrease in
the levels of this hormone. This suggests that the mobbing calls serve to calm
the marmoset after experiencing a stressful situation. This finding results in a 
greater understanding as to the role of physiological responses during
communication in this species and could have implications for the welfare of
marmosets in captivity.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2005.07.007 
PMID: 16102763  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2651. J Allergy Clin Immunol. 2005 Aug;116(2):453-9.

Antibody responses against galactocerebroside are potential stage-specific
biomarkers in multiple sclerosis.

Menge T(1), Lalive PH, von Büdingen HC, Cree B, Hauser SL, Genain CP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University of California San Francisco, San
Francisco, CA 94143-0114, USA.

BACKGROUND: Galactocerebroside, the major glycolipid of central nervous system
myelin, is a known target for pathogenic demyelinating antibody responses in
experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE), the animal model of multiple
sclerosis (MS).
OBJECTIVE: To address the importance of anti-galactocerebroside (alpha-GalC)
antibodies in MS and to evaluate them as biomarkers of disease.
METHODS: alpha-GalC IgGs were quantified from sera of patients with MS and in
marmoset EAE by a new immunosorbent assay.
RESULTS: We report a significant difference in serum alpha-GalC IgG titers
between patients with relapsing-remitting (RR)-MS and healthy controls (HCs; P < 
.001). The frequencies of alpha-GalC antibody-positive subjects (alpha-GalC
titers > or = mean HC titers+3 SD) are also significantly elevated in RR-MS
compared with HC (40% vs 0%; P = .0033). Immunoaffinity purified alpha-GalC IgGs 
from human serum bind to cultured human oligodendrocytes, indicating that the
ELISA detects a biologically relevant epitope. Corroborating these findings,
alpha-GalC antibody responses in marmoset EAE were similarly found to be
specifically associated with the RR forms and not the peracute or progressive
forms, in contrast with other anti-myelin antibodies (P = .0256).
CONCLUSION: (1) alpha-GalC antibodies appear MS-specific and are not found in
healthy subjects, unlike antibodies against myelin proteins; (2) when present,
alpha-GalC antibodies identify mostly RR-MS and may be an indicator of ongoing
disease activity. This novel assay is a suitable and valuable method to increase 
accuracy of diagnosis and disease staging in MS.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jaci.2005.03.023 
PMID: 16083805  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

