

2664. Anat Rec A Discov Mol Cell Evol Biol. 2005 Aug;285(2):677-89.

Secondary pneumatization of the maxillary sinus in callitrichid primates:
insights from immunohistochemistry and bone cell distribution.

Smith TD(1), Rossie JB, Cooper GM, Mooney MP, Siegel MI.

Author information: 
(1)School of Physical Therapy, Slippery Rock University, Slippery Rock, PA 16057,
USA. timothy.smith@sru.edu

The paranasal sinuses remain elusive both in terms of function and in the
proximate mechanism of their development. The present study sought to describe
the maxillary sinuses (MSs) in three species of callitrichid primates at birth, a
time when secondary pneumatization occurs rapidly in humans. The MSs were
examined in serially sectioned and stained slides from the heads of two
Callithrix jacchus, one Leontopithecus rosalia, and two Saguinus geoffroyi.
Specimens were examined microscopically regarding the distribution of osteoclasts
and osteoblasts along the osseous boundaries of the MS and other parts of the
maxillary bone. Selected sections were immunohistochemically evaluated for the
distribution of osteopontin (OPN), which facilitates osteoclast binding. Taken
together, OPN immunoreactivity and bone cell distribution suggested trends of
bone resorption/deposition that were consistent among species for the superior
(roof) and inferior (floor) boundaries of the MS. Expansion at the roof and floor
of the MS appeared to correspond to overall vertical midfacial growth in
callitrichids. Much more variability was noted for the lateral (alveolar) and
medial (nasal walls) of the MS. Unlike the other species, the nasal wall of
Saguinus was static and mostly composed of inferior portions of the nasal capsule
that were undergoing endochondral ossification. The variation seen in the
alveolar walls may relate to the presence or absence of adjacent structures,
although it was noted that adjacency of deciduous molars influenced medial drift 
of the alveolar wall in Saguinus but not Leontopithecus. The results of this
study are largely consistent with the "structural" or "architectural" hypothesis 
of sinus formation with respect to vertical MS enlargement, and the variable
cellular/OPN distribution found along the nasal and alveolar walls was evocative 
of Witmer's (J Vert Paleontol 1997;17:1-73) epithelial hypothesis in revealing
that most expansion occurred in regions unopposed by adjacent structures.

(c) 2005 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ar.a.20209 
PMID: 15983987  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2665. J Mol Evol. 2005 May;60(5):606-14.

Molecular evolution of prolactin in primates.

Wallis OC(1), Mac-Kwashie AO, Makri G, Wallis M.

Author information: 
(1)Biochemistry Department, School of Life Sciences, University of Sussex,
Brighton, UK. C.Wallis@sussex.ac.uk

Pituitary prolactin, like growth hormone (GH) and several other protein hormones,
shows an episodic pattern of molecular evolution in which sustained bursts of
rapid change contrast with long periods of slow evolution. A period of rapid
change occurred in the evolution of prolactin in primates, leading to marked
sequence differences between human prolactin and that of nonprimate mammals. We
have defined this burst more precisely by sequencing the coding regions of
prolactin genes for a prosimian, the slow loris (Nycticebus pygmaeus), and a New 
World monkey, the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). Slow loris prolactin is very
similar in sequence to pig prolactin, so the episode of rapid change occurred
during primate evolution, after the separation of lines leading to prosimians and
higher primates. Marmoset prolactin is similar in sequence to human prolactin, so
the accelerated evolution occurred before divergence of New World monkeys and Old
World monkeys/apes. The burst of change was confined largely to coding sequence
(nonsynonymous sites) for mature prolactin and is not marked in other components 
of the gene sequence. This and the observations that (1) there was no apparent
loss of function during the episode of rapid evolution, (2) the rate of evolution
slowed toward the basal rate after this burst, and (3) the distribution of
substitutions in the prolactin molecule is very uneven support the idea that this
episode of rapid change was due to positive adaptive selection. In the slow loris
and marmoset there is no evidence for duplication of the prolactin gene, and
evidence from another New World monkey (Cebus albifrons) and from the chimpanzee 
and human genome sequences, suggests that this is the general position in
primates, contrasting with the situation for GH genes. The chimpanzee prolactin
sequence differs from that of human at two residues and comparison of human and
chimpanzee prolactin gene sequences suggests that noncoding regions associated
with regulating expression may be evolving differently from other noncoding
regions.

DOI: 10.1007/s00239-004-0239-9 
PMID: 15983870  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

