

2665. J Mol Evol. 2005 May;60(5):606-14.

Molecular evolution of prolactin in primates.

Wallis OC(1), Mac-Kwashie AO, Makri G, Wallis M.

Author information: 
(1)Biochemistry Department, School of Life Sciences, University of Sussex,
Brighton, UK. C.Wallis@sussex.ac.uk

Pituitary prolactin, like growth hormone (GH) and several other protein hormones,
shows an episodic pattern of molecular evolution in which sustained bursts of
rapid change contrast with long periods of slow evolution. A period of rapid
change occurred in the evolution of prolactin in primates, leading to marked
sequence differences between human prolactin and that of nonprimate mammals. We
have defined this burst more precisely by sequencing the coding regions of
prolactin genes for a prosimian, the slow loris (Nycticebus pygmaeus), and a New 
World monkey, the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). Slow loris prolactin is very
similar in sequence to pig prolactin, so the episode of rapid change occurred
during primate evolution, after the separation of lines leading to prosimians and
higher primates. Marmoset prolactin is similar in sequence to human prolactin, so
the accelerated evolution occurred before divergence of New World monkeys and Old
World monkeys/apes. The burst of change was confined largely to coding sequence
(nonsynonymous sites) for mature prolactin and is not marked in other components 
of the gene sequence. This and the observations that (1) there was no apparent
loss of function during the episode of rapid evolution, (2) the rate of evolution
slowed toward the basal rate after this burst, and (3) the distribution of
substitutions in the prolactin molecule is very uneven support the idea that this
episode of rapid change was due to positive adaptive selection. In the slow loris
and marmoset there is no evidence for duplication of the prolactin gene, and
evidence from another New World monkey (Cebus albifrons) and from the chimpanzee 
and human genome sequences, suggests that this is the general position in
primates, contrasting with the situation for GH genes. The chimpanzee prolactin
sequence differs from that of human at two residues and comparison of human and
chimpanzee prolactin gene sequences suggests that noncoding regions associated
with regulating expression may be evolving differently from other noncoding
regions.

DOI: 10.1007/s00239-004-0239-9 
PMID: 15983870  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2666. Environ Mol Mutagen. 2005 Dec;46(4):253-9.

Micronucleated erythrocyte frequencies in old and new world primates: measurement
of micronucleated erythrocyte frequencies in peripheral blood of Callithrix
jacchus as a model for evaluating genotoxicity in primates.

Zúñiga-González GM(1), Gómez-Meda BC, Zamora-Perez AL, Ramos-Ibarra ML,
Batista-González CM, Lemus-Varela ML, Rodríguez-Avila JL, Gallegos-Arreola MP.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratorio de Mutagénesis, Centro de Investigación Biomédica de Occidente,
Instituto Mexicano del Seguro Social, Guadalajara, Jalisco, México.

Nonhuman primates are of particular relevance in evaluating the potential
toxicity of drugs and environmental agents. We have used previously published
information and data from the present study to establish a relationship for New
World (NW) and Old World (OW) primates on the basis of the frequency of
spontaneous micronucleated erythrocytes (MNEs) observed in peripheral blood. Data
on spontaneous MNEs in peripheral blood from 15 species of primates, including
humans, indicate that NW primates have significantly (P < 0.01) higher MNE
frequencies (group mean, 9.5 +/- 7.3 MNEs/10,000 erythrocytes; range,
0.7-20.5/10,000 erythrocytes) than OW primates (group mean, 1.0 +/- 0.9
MNEs/10,000 erythrocytes; range, 0.0-2.6 MNEs/10,000 erythrocytes). Humans are
believed to have developed in the OW, and human MNE frequencies were similar to
those described for OW primate species. We selected the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus), a NW primate, to determine whether therapeutic pediatric
doses of Metotrexate (MTX; 2.5 mg/kg), Cyclophosphamide (CP; 5 mg/kg),
Cytosine-arabinoside (Ara-C; 3 mg/kg), or 5-Fluorouracil (5-FU; 10 mg/kg),
administered daily for two consecutive days, increase the frequency of
micronuclei. Micronucleated polychromatic erythrocyte frequencies were increased 
significantly in groups receiving MTX, CP and Ara-C, while MNE frequencies were
increased by the Ara-C treatment. The results of this study indicate that NW
primates have higher spontaneous MNE frequencies than OW primates, and because of
this, NW primates like the common marmoset, may be suitable for evaluating the
genotoxicity of chemical agents.

DOI: 10.1002/em.20154 
PMID: 15971258  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

