

2669. Cereb Cortex. 2006 Mar;16(3):405-14. Epub 2005 Jun 8.

Hierarchical development of the primate visual cortex, as revealed by
neurofilament immunoreactivity: early maturation of the middle temporal area
(MT).

Bourne JA(1), Rosa MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Centre for Brain and Behaviour, Monash
University, Melbourne, VIC 3800, Australia. james.bourne@med.monash.edu.au

It has been suggested that the development of the cerebral cortex reflects its
hierarchical organization, with the primary sensory areas being the first to
reach structural and functional maturity, and higher-order association areas
being the last. In the present study, we labelled the cortex of New World
marmoset monkeys of late fetal and early postnatal ages with an antibody to
non-phosphorylated neurofilament, a marker of structural maturation of a subset
of pyramidal cells. Supporting the concept of hierarchical maturation, we found
that at birth labelled cells were found in the primary visual, auditory and
somatosensory areas, but not in most other cortical fields. The exception was
visual area MT, which revealed an infragranular pattern of labelling comparable
to the one observed in the primary areas, as well as some supragranular staining.
In MT, an adult-like pattern of labelled cells, including both supragranular and 
infragranular layer neurons, emerged within the first postnatal month. In
comparison, the development of other extrastriate areas was delayed, with the
first signs of neurofilament staining not present until the third week. The
present results support the concept of MT as another primary visual area, an idea
previously advanced on the basis of functional and anatomical evidence.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhi119 
PMID: 15944371  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2670. Am J Primatol. 2005 Jun;66(2):111-8.

Identification of Helicobacter sp. in gastric mucosa from captive marmosets
(Callithrix sp.; callitrichidae, primates).

de Mello MF(1), Monteiro AB, Fonseca EC, Pissinatti A, Ferreira AM.

Author information: 
(1)Postgraduate Course in Experimental Pathology, Department of Pathology,
Universidade Federal Fluminense, Rio de Janeiro, Brasil.
marcelafvmello@hotmail.com

The aim of this study was to identify the presence of Helicobacter sp. in the
gastric mucosa of captive marmosets (Callithrix sp.). Histologic specimens from
the fundic, corpus, and antral gastric regions of six Callithrix jacchus, 12 C.
kuhli, and 12 C. geoffroyi specimens were evaluated. The sections were stained
with hematoxylin-eosin (H&E) and the Warthin-Starry silver impregnation method,
and immunostained with rabbit anti-H. pylori polyclonal antibody.
Helicobacter-like organisms (HLOs) and coccoid forms were present in
silver-stained sections from 29 stomachs, whereas immunohistochemistry (IHC)
tests revealed bacterial aggregates in 15 stomachs. No statistical difference
relative to the presence of Helicobacter sp. was found among the gastric regions 
or marmoset species. Gastric lesions were found in the groups of marmosets that
had positive and negative IHC results, but no correlation between inflammation
and Helicobacter sp. infection was established. These findings demonstrate that
marmosets are susceptible to naturally-occurring Helicobacter sp. infection, and 
open the way to the development of comparative studies on Helicobacter sp.
infection in humans.

(c) 2005 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20131 
PMID: 15940705  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

