

2671. Neurosci Lett. 2005 Jul 22-29;383(1-2):109-14. Epub 2005 Apr 18.

SMI-32 parcellates the visual cortical areas of the marmoset.

Baldauf ZB(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Neurobiology, Hungarian Academy of Sciences, Semmelweis
University, Budapest. zsolt.borostyankoi.baldauf@umontreal.ca

The distribution pattern of SMI-32-immunoreactivity (SMI-32-ir) of neuronal
elements was examined in the visual cortical areas of marmoset monkey. Layer IV
of the primary visual cortex (V1) and layers III and V of the extrastriate areas 
showed the most abundant SMI-32-ir. The different areal and laminar distribution 
of SMI-32-ir allowed the distinction between various extrastriate areas and
determined their exact anatomical boundaries in the New World monkey, Callithrix 
penicillata. It is shown here that the parcellating nature of SMI-32 described
earlier in the visual cortical areas of other mammals - including Old World
monkeys - is also present in the marmoset. Furthermore, a comparison became
possible between the chemoanatomical organization of New World and Old World
primates' visual cortical areas.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neulet.2005.03.055 
PMID: 15936521  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2672. J Hum Evol. 2005 Jul;49(1):122-42.

Opportunistic mothers: female marmosets (Callithrix kuhlii) reduce their
investment in offspring when they have to, and when they can.

Fite JE(1), Patera KJ, French JA, Rukstalis M, Hopkins EC, Ross CN.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska at Omaha, NE 68182-0274, USA.
jfite@mail.unomaha.edu

All female primates incur energetic costs associated with producing and caring
for offspring, but females belonging to the New World primate family
Callitrichidae, the marmosets and tamarins, appear to face even further demands. 
In fact, the energetic demands of rearing callitrichid infants are thought to
have led to the evolution of cooperative infant care in these species. If this
explanation is true, then one might expect that natural selection should also
have shaped patterns of maternal behavior to be sensitive to the costs of
reproduction and equipped females to reduce their investment in offspring under
certain conditions. Therefore, we examined the maternal effort and postpartum
endocrine profiles of individual female marmosets (Callithrix kuhlii) across
conditions that represented two hallmarks of callitrichid reproduction-conception
during the early postpartum period and alloparental assistance. When females
conceived during the early postpartum period and faced the upcoming demands of
caring for their newly conceived litters (Study 1), they significantly reduced
their caregiving effort and had significantly higher postpartum levels of
estradiol relative to breeding attempts in which conception occurred later in the
postpartum period. Postpartum estradiol was negatively correlated with maternal
carrying effort. When experienced alloparents were present (Study 2), females
again reduced their caregiving effort relative to breeding attempts in which
experienced alloparents were not present. Postpartum cortisol, however, did not
vary as a function of experienced alloparental assistance. The results of these
studies suggest that female marmosets have been subjected to similar selection
pressures as females of other primate taxa--to maximize their reproductive
success by reducing their investment in offspring under the worst and best of
conditions--and suggest that hormones may mediate within-female variation in
maternal care. These studies also provide support for the notion that mothers are
"flexible opportunists" when it comes to providing care to their young.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhevol.2005.04.003 
PMCID: PMC2987622
PMID: 15935439  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

