

2672. J Hum Evol. 2005 Jul;49(1):122-42.

Opportunistic mothers: female marmosets (Callithrix kuhlii) reduce their
investment in offspring when they have to, and when they can.

Fite JE(1), Patera KJ, French JA, Rukstalis M, Hopkins EC, Ross CN.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska at Omaha, NE 68182-0274, USA.
jfite@mail.unomaha.edu

All female primates incur energetic costs associated with producing and caring
for offspring, but females belonging to the New World primate family
Callitrichidae, the marmosets and tamarins, appear to face even further demands. 
In fact, the energetic demands of rearing callitrichid infants are thought to
have led to the evolution of cooperative infant care in these species. If this
explanation is true, then one might expect that natural selection should also
have shaped patterns of maternal behavior to be sensitive to the costs of
reproduction and equipped females to reduce their investment in offspring under
certain conditions. Therefore, we examined the maternal effort and postpartum
endocrine profiles of individual female marmosets (Callithrix kuhlii) across
conditions that represented two hallmarks of callitrichid reproduction-conception
during the early postpartum period and alloparental assistance. When females
conceived during the early postpartum period and faced the upcoming demands of
caring for their newly conceived litters (Study 1), they significantly reduced
their caregiving effort and had significantly higher postpartum levels of
estradiol relative to breeding attempts in which conception occurred later in the
postpartum period. Postpartum estradiol was negatively correlated with maternal
carrying effort. When experienced alloparents were present (Study 2), females
again reduced their caregiving effort relative to breeding attempts in which
experienced alloparents were not present. Postpartum cortisol, however, did not
vary as a function of experienced alloparental assistance. The results of these
studies suggest that female marmosets have been subjected to similar selection
pressures as females of other primate taxa--to maximize their reproductive
success by reducing their investment in offspring under the worst and best of
conditions--and suggest that hormones may mediate within-female variation in
maternal care. These studies also provide support for the notion that mothers are
"flexible opportunists" when it comes to providing care to their young.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhevol.2005.04.003 
PMCID: PMC2987622
PMID: 15935439  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2673. Braz J Med Biol Res. 2005 Jun;38(6):915-24. Epub 2005 Jun 1.

Density, proportion, and dendritic coverage of retinal ganglion cells of the
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus jacchus).

Gomes FL(1), Silveira LC, Saito CA, Yamada ES.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Fisiologia, Universidade Federal do Pará, Belém, PA, Brasil.

We performed a quantitative analysis of M and P cell mosaics of the
common-marmoset retina. Ganglion cells were labeled retrogradely from optic nerve
deposits of Biocytin. The labeling was visualized using horseradish peroxidase
(HRP) histochemistry and 3-3'diaminobenzidine as chromogen. M and P cells were
morphologically similar to those found in Old- and New-World primates.
Measurements were performed on well-stained cells from 4 retinas of different
animals. We analyzed separate mosaics for inner and outer M and P cells at
increasing distances from the fovea (2.5-9 mm of eccentricity) to estimate cell
density, proportion, and dendritic coverage. M cell density decreased towards the
retinal periphery in all quadrants. M cell density was higher in the nasal
quadrant than in other retinal regions at similar eccentricities, reaching about 
740 cells/mm(2) at 2.5 mm of temporal eccentricity, and representing 8-14% of all
ganglion cells. P cell density increased from peripheral to more central regions,
reaching about 5540 cells/mm(2) at 2.5 mm of temporal eccentricity. P cells
represented a smaller proportion of all ganglion cells in the nasal quadrant than
in other quadrants, and their numbers increased towards central retinal regions. 
The M cell coverage factor ranged from 5 to 12 and the P cell coverage factor
ranged from 1 to 3 in the nasal quadrant and from 5 to 12 in the other quadrants.
These results show that central and peripheral retinal regions differ in terms of
cell class proportions and dendritic coverage, and their properties do not result
from simply scaling down cell density. Therefore, differences in functional
properties between central and peripheral vision should take these distinct
regional retinal characteristics into account.

DOI: 10.1590/s0100-879x2005000600014 
PMID: 15933786  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

