

2676. J Comp Neurol. 2005 Jul 25;488(2):113-28.

Localization of glycine receptor alpha subunits on bipolar and amacrine cells in 
primate retina.

Jusuf PR(1), Haverkamp S, Grünert U.

Author information: 
(1)The National Vision Research Institute of Australia, Carlton, Victoria 3053,
Australia.

The major inhibitory neurotransmitter glycine is used by about half of the
amacrine cells in the retina. Amacrine cells provide synaptic output to bipolar, 
ganglion, and other amacrine cells. The present study investigated whether
different bipolar and amacrine cell types in the primate retina differ with
respect to the expression of glycine receptor (GlyR) subtypes. Antibodies
specific for the alpha1, alpha2, and alpha3 subunits of the GlyR were combined
with immunohistochemical markers for bipolar and amacrine cells and applied to
vertical sections of macaque (Macaca fascicularis) and marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus) retinae. For all subunits, punctate immunoreactivity was expressed in
the inner plexiform layer. The GlyRalpha2 immunoreactive (IR) puncta occur at the
highest density, followed by GlyR(alpha)3 and GlyR(alpha)1 IR puncta.
Postembedding electron microscopy showed the postsynaptic location of all
subunits. Double immunofluorescence demonstrated that the three alpha subunits
are clustered at different postsynaptic sites. Two OFF cone bipolar cell types
(flat midget and diffuse bipolar DB3), are predominantly associated with the
alpha1 subunit. Two ON bipolar cell types, the DB6 and the rod bipolar cell, are 
predominantly associated with the alpha2 subunit. The glycinergic AII amacrine
cell is presynaptic to the alpha1 subunit in the OFF-sublamina, and postsynaptic 
to the alpha2 subunit in the ON-sublamina. Another putative glycinergic cell, the
vesicular glutamate transporter 3 cell, is predominantly presynaptic to the
alpha2 subunit. The dopaminergic amacrine cell expresses the alpha3 subunit at a 
low density.

(c) 2005 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.20555 
PMID: 15924342  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2677. Haematologica. 2005 May;90(5):625-34.

Anti-Gal-mediated targeting of human B lymphoma cells to antigen-presenting
cells: a potential method for immunotherapy using autologous tumor cells.

Manches O(1), Plumas J, Lui G, Chaperot L, Molens JP, Sotto JJ, Bensa JC, Galili 
U.

Author information: 
(1)Research and Development Laboratory, EFS Rhône-Alpes, Grenoble, EA 2021,
France.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: The residual tumor cells remaining after completion of
standard chemotherapy and radiation treatment in B lymphoma patients, may be
eradicated by active immunotherapy that stimulates tumor-specific T lymphocytes. 
Irradiated autologous lymphoma cells expressing tumor-associated antigens (TAA)
may serve as a potential tumor vaccine, provided that they are effectively
targeted to the antigen-presenting cells (APC). We propose exploiting the natural
anti-Gal antibody in order to target vaccinating tumor cells to APC. Anti-Gal
constitutes 1% of IgG in human serum and interacts specifically with the
alpha-gal epitope (Galalpha1-3Galphalbeta1-4GlcNAc-R).
DESIGN AND METHODS: Alpha-gal epitopes were synthesized in vitro on the membrane 
of primary lymphoma cells by using the recombinant glycosylation enzyme
alpha1,3galactosyltransferase (alpha1,3GT). Processed tumor cells were opsonized 
by purified anti-Gal antibodies and studied for uptake (phagocytosis) by APC
including monocyte-derived macrophages and dendritic cells. Cross-presentation of
tumor antigens after phagocytosis of processed MHC-I negative lymphoma cells was 
measured by activation of a tumor-specific CD8+ T-cell line.
RESULTS: We demonstrate synthesis of alpha-gal epitopes on freshly isolated B
lymphoma cells of various types following the use of the recombinant enzyme
alpha1,3GT. The subsequent binding of anti-Gal to the de novo synthesized
alphagal epitopes opsonizes these tumor cells for effective uptake by macrophages
and dendritic cells, through phagocytosis mediated by FcgammaR1 (CD64). Moreover,
anti-Gal-mediated phagocytosis resulted in cross-presentation of TAA by dendritic
cells.
INTERPRETATION AND CONCLUSIONS: This study suggests that immunization with
irradiated autologous lymphoma cells processed to express alpha-gal epitopes will
result in anti-Gal-mediated, in vivo targeting of the autologous tumor vaccine to
APC.


PMID: 15921377  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

