

2680. Anat Rec A Discov Mol Cell Evol Biol. 2005 Jul;285(1):619-27.

Distribution across cortical areas of neurons projecting to the superior
colliculus in new world monkeys.

Collins CE(1), Lyon DC, Kaas JH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tennessee 37203,
USA. christine.collins@vanderbilt.edu

Surprisingly little is known about the proportions of projections of different
areas and regions of neocortex to the superior colliculus in primates. To obtain 
an overview of such projection patterns, we placed a total of 10 injections of
retrograde tracers in the superior colliculus of three New World monkeys
(Callithrix, Callicebus, and Aotus). Because cortex was flattened and cut
parallel to the surface, labeled corticotectal neurons could be accurately
located relative to architectonic boundaries and surface features. While there
was variability across cases and injection sites, the summed results clearly
support several conclusions. One, three well-defined visual areas, V1 (18%), V2
(14%), and MT (11%), contributed nearly half of the total of labeled cells. Two, 
several other visual areas (V3, DL, DM, and FST) that are early in the processing
hierarchy provided another fifth of the total. Three, inferior temporal visual
areas of the ventral stream provided only minor projections. Four, visuomotor
fields (FEF, FV, cortex in the region of SEF, and posterior parietal cortex)
contained less than 10% of the labeled neurons. Five, few labeled neurons were in
auditory or somatosensory areas. The results indicate that cortical inputs to the
superior colliculus originate predominantly from early visual areas rather than
from multimodal or visuomotor areas.

Copyright (c) 2005 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ar.a.20207 
PMID: 15912524  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2681. Anat Rec A Discov Mol Cell Evol Biol. 2005 Jul;285(1):610-8.

Pyramidal neurons of granular prefrontal cortex of the galago: complexity in
evolution of the psychic cell in primates.

Elston GN(1), Elston A, Casagrande V, Kaas JH.

Author information: 
(1)Vision, Touch and Hearing Research Centre, School of Biomedical Sciences &
Queensland Brain Institute, University of Queensland, Queensland, Australia.
G.Elston@vthrc.uq.edu.au

Typically, cognitive abilities of humans have been attributed to their greatly
expanded cortical mantle, granular prefrontal cortex (gPFC) in particular.
Recently we have demonstrated systematic differences in microstructure of gPFC in
different species. Specifically, pyramidal cells in adult human gPFC are
considerably more spinous than those in the gPFC of the macaque monkey, which are
more spinous than those in the gPFC of marmoset and owl monkeys. As most cortical
dendritic spines receive at least one excitatory input, pyramidal cells in these 
different species putatively receive different numbers of inputs. These
differences in the gPFC pyramidal cell phenotype may be of fundamental importance
in determining the functional characteristics of prefrontal circuitry and hence
the cognitive styles of the different species. However, it remains unknown as to 
why the gPFC pyramidal cell phenotype differs between species. Differences could 
be attributed to, among other things, brain size, relative size of gPFC, or the
lineage to which the species belong. Here we investigated pyramidal cells in the 
dorsolateral gPFC of the prosimian galago to extend the basis for comparison. We 
found these cells to be less spinous than those in human, macaque, and marmoset.

Copyright (c) 2005 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ar.a.20198 
PMID: 15912521  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

