

2681. Anat Rec A Discov Mol Cell Evol Biol. 2005 Jul;285(1):610-8.

Pyramidal neurons of granular prefrontal cortex of the galago: complexity in
evolution of the psychic cell in primates.

Elston GN(1), Elston A, Casagrande V, Kaas JH.

Author information: 
(1)Vision, Touch and Hearing Research Centre, School of Biomedical Sciences &
Queensland Brain Institute, University of Queensland, Queensland, Australia.
G.Elston@vthrc.uq.edu.au

Typically, cognitive abilities of humans have been attributed to their greatly
expanded cortical mantle, granular prefrontal cortex (gPFC) in particular.
Recently we have demonstrated systematic differences in microstructure of gPFC in
different species. Specifically, pyramidal cells in adult human gPFC are
considerably more spinous than those in the gPFC of the macaque monkey, which are
more spinous than those in the gPFC of marmoset and owl monkeys. As most cortical
dendritic spines receive at least one excitatory input, pyramidal cells in these 
different species putatively receive different numbers of inputs. These
differences in the gPFC pyramidal cell phenotype may be of fundamental importance
in determining the functional characteristics of prefrontal circuitry and hence
the cognitive styles of the different species. However, it remains unknown as to 
why the gPFC pyramidal cell phenotype differs between species. Differences could 
be attributed to, among other things, brain size, relative size of gPFC, or the
lineage to which the species belong. Here we investigated pyramidal cells in the 
dorsolateral gPFC of the prosimian galago to extend the basis for comparison. We 
found these cells to be less spinous than those in human, macaque, and marmoset.

Copyright (c) 2005 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ar.a.20198 
PMID: 15912521  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2682. J Comp Neurol. 2005 Jul 11;487(4):391-406.

Functional organization and hemispheric comparison of primary auditory cortex in 
the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Philibert B(1), Beitel RE, Nagarajan SS, Bonham BH, Schreiner CE, Cheung SW.

Author information: 
(1)Coleman Memorial Laboratory and W.M. Keck Center for Integrative Neuroscience,
Department of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, University of California, San
Francisco, San Francisco, California 94143-0732, USA.

Hemispheric fine-grain maps of primary auditory cortex (AI) were derived from
microelectrode penetrations in the temporal gyrus of the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus) to 1) compare the functional organization of AI in the
marmoset with other mammalian species and 2) compare the right and left AI maps
in individual monkeys. Frequency receptive fields (FRFs) were recorded with pure 
tones. Five FRF parameters were analyzed: characteristic frequency, threshold,
sharpness of tuning 10 dB and 40 dB above threshold, and minimum response
latency. The present study confirms that the functional organization of AI is
characterized by a robust tonotopic frequency gradient overlaid with spatially
clustered distributions of other FRF parameters. Globally, this functional
organization of AI in the common marmoset is similar to that in other mammalian
species. With respect to within-subject hemispheric comparisons of the five FRF
parameters, a coherent pattern of asymmetry is not evident in marmoset AI. The
overall results indicate that the basic functional organization between
hemispheres is similar but not identical.

(c) 2005 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.20581 
PMID: 15906314  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

