

2682. J Comp Neurol. 2005 Jul 11;487(4):391-406.

Functional organization and hemispheric comparison of primary auditory cortex in 
the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Philibert B(1), Beitel RE, Nagarajan SS, Bonham BH, Schreiner CE, Cheung SW.

Author information: 
(1)Coleman Memorial Laboratory and W.M. Keck Center for Integrative Neuroscience,
Department of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, University of California, San
Francisco, San Francisco, California 94143-0732, USA.

Hemispheric fine-grain maps of primary auditory cortex (AI) were derived from
microelectrode penetrations in the temporal gyrus of the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus) to 1) compare the functional organization of AI in the
marmoset with other mammalian species and 2) compare the right and left AI maps
in individual monkeys. Frequency receptive fields (FRFs) were recorded with pure 
tones. Five FRF parameters were analyzed: characteristic frequency, threshold,
sharpness of tuning 10 dB and 40 dB above threshold, and minimum response
latency. The present study confirms that the functional organization of AI is
characterized by a robust tonotopic frequency gradient overlaid with spatially
clustered distributions of other FRF parameters. Globally, this functional
organization of AI in the common marmoset is similar to that in other mammalian
species. With respect to within-subject hemispheric comparisons of the five FRF
parameters, a coherent pattern of asymmetry is not evident in marmoset AI. The
overall results indicate that the basic functional organization between
hemispheres is similar but not identical.

(c) 2005 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.20581 
PMID: 15906314  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2683. Nature. 2005 May 19;435(7040):341-6.

Sustained firing in auditory cortex evoked by preferred stimuli.

Wang X(1), Lu T, Snider RK, Liang L.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.
xwang@bme.jhu.edu

It has been well documented that neurons in the auditory cortex of anaesthetized 
animals generally display transient responses to acoustic stimulation, and
typically respond to a brief stimulus with one or fewer action potentials. The
number of action potentials evoked by each stimulus usually does not increase
with increasing stimulus duration. Such observations have long puzzled
researchers across disciplines and raised serious questions regarding the role of
the auditory cortex in encoding ongoing acoustic signals. Contrary to these
long-held views, here we show that single neurons in both primary (area A1) and
lateral belt areas of the auditory cortex of awake marmoset monkeys (Callithrix
jacchus) are capable of firing in a sustained manner over a prolonged period of
time, especially when they are driven by their preferred stimuli. In contrast,
responses become more transient or phasic when auditory cortex neurons respond to
non-preferred stimuli. These findings suggest that when the auditory cortex is
stimulated by a sound, a particular population of neurons fire maximally
throughout the duration of the sound. Responses of other, less optimally driven
neurons fade away quickly after stimulus onset. This results in a selective
representation of the sound across both neuronal population and time.

DOI: 10.1038/nature03565 
PMID: 15902257  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

