

2683. Nature. 2005 May 19;435(7040):341-6.

Sustained firing in auditory cortex evoked by preferred stimuli.

Wang X(1), Lu T, Snider RK, Liang L.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.
xwang@bme.jhu.edu

It has been well documented that neurons in the auditory cortex of anaesthetized 
animals generally display transient responses to acoustic stimulation, and
typically respond to a brief stimulus with one or fewer action potentials. The
number of action potentials evoked by each stimulus usually does not increase
with increasing stimulus duration. Such observations have long puzzled
researchers across disciplines and raised serious questions regarding the role of
the auditory cortex in encoding ongoing acoustic signals. Contrary to these
long-held views, here we show that single neurons in both primary (area A1) and
lateral belt areas of the auditory cortex of awake marmoset monkeys (Callithrix
jacchus) are capable of firing in a sustained manner over a prolonged period of
time, especially when they are driven by their preferred stimuli. In contrast,
responses become more transient or phasic when auditory cortex neurons respond to
non-preferred stimuli. These findings suggest that when the auditory cortex is
stimulated by a sound, a particular population of neurons fire maximally
throughout the duration of the sound. Responses of other, less optimally driven
neurons fade away quickly after stimulus onset. This results in a selective
representation of the sound across both neuronal population and time.

DOI: 10.1038/nature03565 
PMID: 15902257  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2684. Lab Anim. 2005 Apr;39(2):169-77.

A novel method for activity monitoring in small non-human primates.

Mann TM(1), Williams KE, Pearce PC, Scott EA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Dstl Porton Down, Porton, Salisbury SP4
0JQ, UK. tmann@dstl.gov.uk

Patterns of spontaneous activity are valuable reflections of well-being in
animals and humans and, because of this, investigations have frequently
incorporated some form of activity monitoring into their studies. It is widely
believed that activity monitoring, alongside assessments of general behaviour,
should be included in initial CNS safety pharmacology screening. As the number of
marmoset studies having actimetry as their focus, or as an adjunct, is
increasing, we wished to evaluate an alternative approach to those commonly used.
The method is based on miniaturized accelerometer technologies, currently used
for human activity monitoring.Actiwatch-Minis were used to monitor the activity
of two groups of differently housed marmosets for 14 consecutive days. Group A
consisted of four mixed-sex pairs of animals and group B comprised eight
group-housed males. Activity profiles were generated for weekday and weekend
periods. The devices captured quantifiable data which showed differences in total
activity between the two differently housed groups and revealed intragroup
variations in the temporal spread of activity between weekdays and weekends. The 
Actiwatch-Mini has been shown to generate retrospective, data-logged activity
counts recorded from multiple animals in a single arena by means of non-invasive 
monitoring.

DOI: 10.1258/0023677053739783 
PMID: 15901360  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

