

2686. Folia Primatol (Basel). 2005 May-Jun;76(3):125-34.

Colour discrimination in the black-tufted-ear marmoset (Callithrix penicillata): 
ecological implications.

Pessoa DM(1), Cunha JF, Tomaz C, Pessoa VF.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Neurosciences and Behaviour and Primate Centre,University of
Brasilia, Brasilia, Brazil.

The dietary diversity of marmosets is substantial, which may reflect differences 
in their colour vision. This study examined the colour discrimination ability of 
a gummivore/insectivore callitrichid, Callithrix penicillata, which inhabits the 
Brazilian cerrado (bush savanna). A series of ecologically relevant tasks,
involving a behavioural paradigm of discrimination learning in semi-natural
conditions and the usage of ecologically relevant stimuli, was executed. Three
marmosets, 2 males and a female, behaved like human dichromats, showing an
impaired performance when orange and green stimuli had to be discriminated. In
contrast, 2 females resembled human trichromats, discriminating those kinds of
pairs. Our data suggest that Callithrix penicillata presents a polymorphic
trichromacy, with dichromatic males and dichromatic or trichromatic females.

DOI: 10.1159/000084375 
PMID: 15900100  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2687. FASEB J. 2005 Jul;19(9):1140-2. Epub 2005 May 13.

A role for endocannabinoids in the generation of parkinsonism and
levodopa-induced dyskinesia in MPTP-lesioned non-human primate models of
Parkinson's disease.

van der Stelt M(1), Fox SH, Hill M, Crossman AR, Petrosino S, Di Marzo V,
Brotchie JM.

Author information: 
(1)Endocannabinoid Research Group, Istituto di Chimica Biomolecolare, Consiglio
Nazionale delle Ricerche, Pozzuoli, NA, Italy.

Endocannabinoids and cannabinoid CB1 receptors play a role in the control of
movement by modulating GABA, glutamate, and other neurotransmitters throughout
the basal ganglia. Roles for abnormalities in endocannabinoid signaling in
Parkinson's disease (PD) and the major side effect of current treatments,
levodopa-induced dyskinesia (LID), have been suggested by rodent studies. Here we
show that signaling by endocannabinoids contributes to the pathophysiology of
parkinsonism and LID in MPTP-lesioned, non-human primate models of Parkinson's
disease. In MPTP-lesioned marmosets previously treated with levodopa to establish
LID, attenuation of CB1 signaling by systemic administration of rimonabant (1 and
3 mg/kg) had anti-parkinsonian actions, equivalent to a 71% increase in motor
activity at 3 mg/kg. Rimonabant did not elicit dyskinesia. Co-administration of
levodopa (8 mg/kg) and rimonabant (1 and 3 mg/kg) resulted in significantly less 
dyskinesia than levodopa alone, without significantly affecting the
anti-parkinsonian action of levodopa. These data suggest that enhanced
endocannabinoid signaling may be involved in the pathophysiology of both
parkinsonism and LID. To define potential mechanisms by which such a role might
be mediated, we determined the levels of the endocannabinoids anandamide and
2-arachidonyl glycerol (2-AG) throughout the basal ganglia in normal and three
groups of MPTP-lesioned cynomolgus monkeys (untreated; acutely treated with
L-DOPA, non-dyskinetic; long-term treated, with levodopa-induced dyskinesia). In 
the untreated, MPTP-lesioned primate, parkinsonism was associated with increases 
in both 2-AG (+88%) and anandamide (+49%) in the striatum, and of 2-AG (+97%) in 
the substantia nigra, changes that are consistent with the previously suggested
role for endocannabinoids in mechanisms attempting to compensate for loss of
dopamine in untreated parkinsonism. Increased levels of anandamide (+34%) in the 
external globus pallidus of MPTP-lesioned animals were normalized by levodopa
treatment and may contribute to the generation of parkinsonian symptoms. However,
no clear alteration in endocannabinoid levels could be correlated with the
expression of LID. These data highlight the potential roles played by
endocannabinoids and CB1 in PD and LID and suggest the need for further research 
to pursue the multiple therapeutic opportunities for manipulating this system in 
movement disorders.

DOI: 10.1096/fj.04-3010fje 
PMID: 15894565  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

