

2687. FASEB J. 2005 Jul;19(9):1140-2. Epub 2005 May 13.

A role for endocannabinoids in the generation of parkinsonism and
levodopa-induced dyskinesia in MPTP-lesioned non-human primate models of
Parkinson's disease.

van der Stelt M(1), Fox SH, Hill M, Crossman AR, Petrosino S, Di Marzo V,
Brotchie JM.

Author information: 
(1)Endocannabinoid Research Group, Istituto di Chimica Biomolecolare, Consiglio
Nazionale delle Ricerche, Pozzuoli, NA, Italy.

Endocannabinoids and cannabinoid CB1 receptors play a role in the control of
movement by modulating GABA, glutamate, and other neurotransmitters throughout
the basal ganglia. Roles for abnormalities in endocannabinoid signaling in
Parkinson's disease (PD) and the major side effect of current treatments,
levodopa-induced dyskinesia (LID), have been suggested by rodent studies. Here we
show that signaling by endocannabinoids contributes to the pathophysiology of
parkinsonism and LID in MPTP-lesioned, non-human primate models of Parkinson's
disease. In MPTP-lesioned marmosets previously treated with levodopa to establish
LID, attenuation of CB1 signaling by systemic administration of rimonabant (1 and
3 mg/kg) had anti-parkinsonian actions, equivalent to a 71% increase in motor
activity at 3 mg/kg. Rimonabant did not elicit dyskinesia. Co-administration of
levodopa (8 mg/kg) and rimonabant (1 and 3 mg/kg) resulted in significantly less 
dyskinesia than levodopa alone, without significantly affecting the
anti-parkinsonian action of levodopa. These data suggest that enhanced
endocannabinoid signaling may be involved in the pathophysiology of both
parkinsonism and LID. To define potential mechanisms by which such a role might
be mediated, we determined the levels of the endocannabinoids anandamide and
2-arachidonyl glycerol (2-AG) throughout the basal ganglia in normal and three
groups of MPTP-lesioned cynomolgus monkeys (untreated; acutely treated with
L-DOPA, non-dyskinetic; long-term treated, with levodopa-induced dyskinesia). In 
the untreated, MPTP-lesioned primate, parkinsonism was associated with increases 
in both 2-AG (+88%) and anandamide (+49%) in the striatum, and of 2-AG (+97%) in 
the substantia nigra, changes that are consistent with the previously suggested
role for endocannabinoids in mechanisms attempting to compensate for loss of
dopamine in untreated parkinsonism. Increased levels of anandamide (+34%) in the 
external globus pallidus of MPTP-lesioned animals were normalized by levodopa
treatment and may contribute to the generation of parkinsonian symptoms. However,
no clear alteration in endocannabinoid levels could be correlated with the
expression of LID. These data highlight the potential roles played by
endocannabinoids and CB1 in PD and LID and suggest the need for further research 
to pursue the multiple therapeutic opportunities for manipulating this system in 
movement disorders.

DOI: 10.1096/fj.04-3010fje 
PMID: 15894565  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2688. J Neurophysiol. 2005 Sep;94(3):1789-97. Epub 2005 May 11.

Spatial distribution of suppressive signals outside the classical receptive field
in lateral geniculate nucleus.

Webb BS(1), Tinsley CJ, Vincent CJ, Derrington AM.

Author information: 
(1)School of Psychology, University of Nottingham, University Park, Nottingham
NG7 2RD, UK. bsw@psychology.nottingham.ac.uk

A suppressive surround modulates the responsiveness of cells in the lateral
geniculate nucleus (LGN), but we know nothing of its spatial structure or the way
in which it combines signals arising from different locations. It is generally
assumed that suppressive signals are either uniformly distributed or balanced in 
opposing regions outside the receptive field. Here, we examine the spatial
distribution and summation of suppressive signals outside the receptive field in 
extracellular recordings from 46 LGN cells in anesthetized marmosets. The
receptive field of each cell was stimulated with a drifting sinusoidal grating of
the preferred size and spatial and temporal frequency; we probed different
positions in the suppressive surround with either a large half-annular grating or
a small circular grating patch of the preferred spatial and temporal frequency.
In many of the cells with a strong suppressive surround (29/46), the spatial
distribution of suppression showed clear deviation from circular symmetry. In the
majority of these of cells, suppressive signals were spatially asymmetrical or
balanced in opposing areas outside the receptive field. A suppressive area was
larger than the classical receptive field itself and spatial summation within and
between these areas was nonlinear. There was no bias for suppression to arise
from foveal or nasal retina where cone density is higher and no other sign of a
systematic spatial organization to the suppressive surround. We conclude that
nonclassical suppressive signals in LGN deviate from circular symmetry and are
nonlinearly combined.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00826.2004 
PMID: 15888523  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

