

2688. J Neurophysiol. 2005 Sep;94(3):1789-97. Epub 2005 May 11.

Spatial distribution of suppressive signals outside the classical receptive field
in lateral geniculate nucleus.

Webb BS(1), Tinsley CJ, Vincent CJ, Derrington AM.

Author information: 
(1)School of Psychology, University of Nottingham, University Park, Nottingham
NG7 2RD, UK. bsw@psychology.nottingham.ac.uk

A suppressive surround modulates the responsiveness of cells in the lateral
geniculate nucleus (LGN), but we know nothing of its spatial structure or the way
in which it combines signals arising from different locations. It is generally
assumed that suppressive signals are either uniformly distributed or balanced in 
opposing regions outside the receptive field. Here, we examine the spatial
distribution and summation of suppressive signals outside the receptive field in 
extracellular recordings from 46 LGN cells in anesthetized marmosets. The
receptive field of each cell was stimulated with a drifting sinusoidal grating of
the preferred size and spatial and temporal frequency; we probed different
positions in the suppressive surround with either a large half-annular grating or
a small circular grating patch of the preferred spatial and temporal frequency.
In many of the cells with a strong suppressive surround (29/46), the spatial
distribution of suppression showed clear deviation from circular symmetry. In the
majority of these of cells, suppressive signals were spatially asymmetrical or
balanced in opposing areas outside the receptive field. A suppressive area was
larger than the classical receptive field itself and spatial summation within and
between these areas was nonlinear. There was no bias for suppression to arise
from foveal or nasal retina where cone density is higher and no other sign of a
systematic spatial organization to the suppressive surround. We conclude that
nonclassical suppressive signals in LGN deviate from circular symmetry and are
nonlinearly combined.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00826.2004 
PMID: 15888523  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2689. Mech Ageing Dev. 2005 Jun-Jul;126(6-7):760-6. Epub 2005 Mar 5.

Proteasomal activity in brain differs between species and brain regions and
changes with age.

Zeng BY(1), Medhurst AD, Jackson M, Rose S, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Research Centre, GKT School of Biomedical Sciences, 
King's College, London, UK.

Age-related increase in protein oxidation in brain coupled to an impairment of
proteasomal activity may underline neuronal loss but differences in
susceptibility between species and brain regions remain unexplained. We now
investigate differences in proteasomal activity, measured as chymotrypsin-,
trypsin- and peptidylglutamyl-like hydrolysing activities between brain regions
in rats, mice and common marmosets. In aged rats and mice, proteasomal activity
was decreased in the cortex, striatum, cerebellum, globus pallidus and substantia
nigra overall when compared to young animals. However, in the aged brain only
chymotrypsin-like activity was decreased in the cortex and the globus pallidus
while only trypsin-like activity was reduced in the cerebellum. In contrast, in
the striatum, both chymotrypsin-like and trypsin-like activities were reduced and
in the substantia nigra, all the three catalytic activities of proteasome were
significantly impaired. Chymotrypsin-like and trypsin-like activities were
significantly higher in all the brain regions of marmosets compared to those of
mice and rats. Peptidylglutamyl-like activity was only significantly higher in
the cerebellum and striatum of marmoset compared to rodents. The data suggest
that there is higher proteasome activity in common marmoset brain compared to rat
and mouse and that the basal ganglia are more prone to an age-related decrease in
proteasomal activity. This may explain the involvement of altered
ubiquitin-proteasome system activity in Parkinson's disease and the relationship 
to ageing.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mad.2005.01.008 
PMID: 15888331  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

