

2691. Behav Brain Res. 2005 May 28;160(2):267-76. Epub 2005 Jan 11.

Postural changes after lesions of the substantia nigra pars reticulata in
hemiparkinsonian monkeys.

Henderson JM(1), Stanic D, Tomas D, Patch J, Horne MK, Bourke D, Finkelstein DI.

Author information: 
(1)Prince of Wales Medical Research Institute, University of New South Wales,
Sydney, Australia. jasmine@med.usyd.edu.au

Current neurosurgical strategies target overactive brain regions including the
subthalamic nucleus, globus pallidus and thalamus to control various symptoms of 
Parkinson's disease. Subthalamotomy improves akinesia and can induce postural
deficits in both parkinsonian humans and animals, pallidotomy improves limb
dyskinesia and more variably, distal bradykinesia whilst thalamotomy improves
tremor. Because the SNr also becomes overactive in PD and there are few surgical 
studies in parkinsonian primates, we therefore evaluated the effects of lesioning
the SNr in hemiparkinsonian marmosets to establish the effects on symptomatology.
Nine monkeys received unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesions. Seven weeks 
later, four received kainic acid lesions of the SNr. Behavioural tests were
performed prior to 6-OHDA surgery and then fortnightly for 14 weeks. Unilateral
6-OHDA lesions induced ipsilateral postural bias, ipsilateral rotation after
amphetamine injection and bradykinesia. Whilst, SNr lesions significantly altered
the direction of head position and amphetamine-induced rotation relative to
6-OHDA lesions, there was no improvement in 6-OHDA-induced reaching deficits or
sensorimotor neglect. Unbiased quantitation of the nigral lesions showed on
average 88% loss of dopaminergic neurons after 6-OHDA lesions and 77% loss of
non-dopaminergic neurons after SNr lesions. Our results demonstrate that the SNr 
is important in body orientation changes in parkinsonism.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2004.12.008 
PMID: 15863223  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2692. Brain Res. 2005 May 10;1043(1-2):42-7.

Retinal projections to the midline and intralaminar thalamic nuclei in the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Cavalcante JS(1), Costa MS, Santee UR, Britto LR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Biosciences Center, Federal University of Rio Grande
do Norte, 59072-970 Natal, RN, Brazil. jsc@cb.ufrn.br

In this study, we report the identification of a hitherto not reported direct
retinal projection to midline and intralaminar thalamic nuclei in the marmoset
brain. After unilateral intravitreal injections of cholera toxin subunit B (CTb),
anterogradely transported CTb-immunoreactive fibers and presumptive terminals
were seen in the following thalamic midline nuclei: paraventricular, rhomboid,
interanteromedial, and reuniens, and thalamic intralaminar nuclei: central
medial, central lateral, central dorsal, and parafascicular. Studies employing
sensitive tracers in other primate species are needed in order to verify the
possible universality of these projections. Some of the possible functional
correlates of the present data are briefly discussed. The present results may
contribute to the elucidation of the anatomical substrate of the functionally
demonstrated involvement of this midline/intralaminar thalamic nuclear complex in
several domains that include arousal and awareness, besides specific cognitive,
sensory, and motor functions.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brainres.2005.02.035 
PMID: 15862516  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

