

2693. J Med Primatol. 2005 Jun;34(3):156-62.

Comparison between sex and age class on some physiological, thermal, and
hematological indices of the cerrado's marmoset (Callithrix penicillata).

Boere V(1), Pinheiro EC, de Oliveira e Silva I, Paludo GR, Canale G, Pianta T,
Welker A, Rocha-de-Moura RC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiological Sciences, Institute of Biology, Primate Center,
University of Brasilia, DF 709 10900 Brasilia, Brazil. vanner@unb.br

There are few papers about physiological indices in Callithrix penicillata, an
increasing primate model in biomedicine. We investigated levels of plasmatic
cortisol, plasmatic glucose, free fatty acids, blood cells, tympanic temperature,
rectal temperature in C. penicllata, under a fast restraint. Measures of body and
weight were accomplished. Males and females were not different regarding any
measurements. Body measurements indicated differences between adults and
juveniles. Adults showed higher hematocrit and a tendency for higher free fatty
acids than juveniles. Right tympanic temperature was higher in adults than
juveniles. This result suggests a higher reaction metabolism in adults than
juveniles under a restraint stress. Due to the short-time of collecting the data,
plasmatic cortisol did not influence physiological parameters. Therefore, we
suggest that present results could be considered referential values of C.
penicillata physiology.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0684.2005.00101.x 
PMID: 15860125  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2694. J Med Primatol. 2005 Apr;34(2):86-90.

Comparison of the effects of Percoll and PureSperm on the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus) semen.

Hernández-López L(1), Umland N, Mondragón-Ceballos R, Nayudu PL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Reproductive Biology, German Primate Center, Goettingen,
Germany. lhl@imp.edu.mx

Density gradient centrifugation is a widely used technique for the separation of 
motile from non-motile sperm, for the removal of contaminating agents such as
bacteria and viruses, and for the removal of seminal plasma or cryoprotectant. In
the choice of a density gradient medium for a new species, it is important to
perform toxicity tests. The present study was carried out to evaluate the
potential toxic effects of two silica-based density gradient products (Percoll
and PureSperm), on the sperm of the common marmoset. We assessed two different
batches of Percoll (polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP)-coated colloidal silica particles)
and one of PureSperm (saline-coated colloidal silica suspension) by means of a
computer-aided sperm analysis on semen collected by vibrostimulation. The results
showed that although some of the sperm patterns of movement and viability changed
significantly over time, and provide a first description of marmoset sperm
motility changes under capacitating conditions, there was no significant
difference in the sperm treated with Percoll or PureSperm in comparison with the 
control. We conclude that simple exposure to either of these products does not
have a negative effect on viability or motility of marmoset sperm.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0684.2005.00095.x 
PMID: 15860114  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

