

2694. J Med Primatol. 2005 Apr;34(2):86-90.

Comparison of the effects of Percoll and PureSperm on the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus) semen.

Hernández-López L(1), Umland N, Mondragón-Ceballos R, Nayudu PL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Reproductive Biology, German Primate Center, Goettingen,
Germany. lhl@imp.edu.mx

Density gradient centrifugation is a widely used technique for the separation of 
motile from non-motile sperm, for the removal of contaminating agents such as
bacteria and viruses, and for the removal of seminal plasma or cryoprotectant. In
the choice of a density gradient medium for a new species, it is important to
perform toxicity tests. The present study was carried out to evaluate the
potential toxic effects of two silica-based density gradient products (Percoll
and PureSperm), on the sperm of the common marmoset. We assessed two different
batches of Percoll (polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP)-coated colloidal silica particles)
and one of PureSperm (saline-coated colloidal silica suspension) by means of a
computer-aided sperm analysis on semen collected by vibrostimulation. The results
showed that although some of the sperm patterns of movement and viability changed
significantly over time, and provide a first description of marmoset sperm
motility changes under capacitating conditions, there was no significant
difference in the sperm treated with Percoll or PureSperm in comparison with the 
control. We conclude that simple exposure to either of these products does not
have a negative effect on viability or motility of marmoset sperm.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0684.2005.00095.x 
PMID: 15860114  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2695. Cereb Cortex. 2006 Feb;16(2):162-77. Epub 2005 Apr 27.

Functional response properties of neurons in the dorsomedial visual area of New
World monkeys (Callithrix jacchus).

Lui LL(1), Bourne JA, Rosa MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Clayton, VIC 3800, Australia.

The dorsomedial visual area (DM), a subdivision of extrastriate cortex located
near the dorsal midline, is characterized by heavy myelination and a relative
emphasis on peripheral vision. To date, DM remains the least understood of the
three primary targets of projections from the striate cortex (V1) in New World
monkeys. Here, we characterize the responses of DM neurons in anaesthetized
marmosets to drifting sine wave gratings. Most (82.4%) cells showed bidirectional
sensitivity, with only 6.9% being strongly direction selective. The distribution 
of orientation sensitivity was bimodal, with a distinct population (corresponding
to over half of the sample) formed by neurons with very narrow selectivity. When 
compared with a sample of V1 units representing a comparable range of
eccentricities, DM cells revealed a preference for much lower spatial
frequencies, and higher speeds. End inhibition was extremely rare, and the
responses of many cells summated over distances as large as 30 degrees. Our
results suggest clear differences between DM and the two other main targets of V1
projections, the second (V2) and middle temporal (MT) areas, with cells in DM
emphasizing aspects of visual information that are likely to be relevant for
motor control.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhi094 
PMID: 15858163  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

