

2695. Cereb Cortex. 2006 Feb;16(2):162-77. Epub 2005 Apr 27.

Functional response properties of neurons in the dorsomedial visual area of New
World monkeys (Callithrix jacchus).

Lui LL(1), Bourne JA, Rosa MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Clayton, VIC 3800, Australia.

The dorsomedial visual area (DM), a subdivision of extrastriate cortex located
near the dorsal midline, is characterized by heavy myelination and a relative
emphasis on peripheral vision. To date, DM remains the least understood of the
three primary targets of projections from the striate cortex (V1) in New World
monkeys. Here, we characterize the responses of DM neurons in anaesthetized
marmosets to drifting sine wave gratings. Most (82.4%) cells showed bidirectional
sensitivity, with only 6.9% being strongly direction selective. The distribution 
of orientation sensitivity was bimodal, with a distinct population (corresponding
to over half of the sample) formed by neurons with very narrow selectivity. When 
compared with a sample of V1 units representing a comparable range of
eccentricities, DM cells revealed a preference for much lower spatial
frequencies, and higher speeds. End inhibition was extremely rare, and the
responses of many cells summated over distances as large as 30 degrees. Our
results suggest clear differences between DM and the two other main targets of V1
projections, the second (V2) and middle temporal (MT) areas, with cells in DM
emphasizing aspects of visual information that are likely to be relevant for
motor control.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhi094 
PMID: 15858163  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2696. J Neurosci Methods. 2005 May 15;144(1):53-61.

Spectral representation--analyzing single-unit activity in extracellularly
recorded neuronal data without spike sorting.

Luczak A(1), Narayanan NS.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Molecular and Behavioral Neuroscience, Rutgers, The State
University of New Jersey, 197 University Avenue, Newark, NJ 07102, USA.
Luczak@cs.yale.edu

One step in the conventional analysis of extracellularly recorded neuronal data
is spike sorting, which separates electrical signal into action potentials from
different neurons. Because spike sorting involves human judgment, it can be
subjective and time intensive, particularly for large sets of neurons. Here we
propose a simple, automated way to construct alternative representations of
neuronal activity, called spectral representation (SR). In this approach,
neuronal spikes are mapped to a discrete space of spike waveform features and
time. Spectral representation enables us to find single-unit stimulus-related
changes in neuronal activity without spike sorting. We tested the ability of this
method to predict stimuli using both simulated data and experimental data from an
auditory mapping study in anesthetized marmoset monkeys. We find that our
approach produces more accurate classification of stimuli than spike-sorted data 
for both simulated and experimental conditions. Furthermore, this method lends
itself to automated analysis of extracellularly recorded neuronal ensembles.
Additionally, we suggest ways in which these representations can be readily
extended to assist in spike sorting and the evaluation of single-neuron
peri-stimulus time histograms.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jneumeth.2004.10.009 
PMID: 15848239  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

