

2696. J Neurosci Methods. 2005 May 15;144(1):53-61.

Spectral representation--analyzing single-unit activity in extracellularly
recorded neuronal data without spike sorting.

Luczak A(1), Narayanan NS.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Molecular and Behavioral Neuroscience, Rutgers, The State
University of New Jersey, 197 University Avenue, Newark, NJ 07102, USA.
Luczak@cs.yale.edu

One step in the conventional analysis of extracellularly recorded neuronal data
is spike sorting, which separates electrical signal into action potentials from
different neurons. Because spike sorting involves human judgment, it can be
subjective and time intensive, particularly for large sets of neurons. Here we
propose a simple, automated way to construct alternative representations of
neuronal activity, called spectral representation (SR). In this approach,
neuronal spikes are mapped to a discrete space of spike waveform features and
time. Spectral representation enables us to find single-unit stimulus-related
changes in neuronal activity without spike sorting. We tested the ability of this
method to predict stimuli using both simulated data and experimental data from an
auditory mapping study in anesthetized marmoset monkeys. We find that our
approach produces more accurate classification of stimuli than spike-sorted data 
for both simulated and experimental conditions. Furthermore, this method lends
itself to automated analysis of extracellularly recorded neuronal ensembles.
Additionally, we suggest ways in which these representations can be readily
extended to assist in spike sorting and the evaluation of single-neuron
peri-stimulus time histograms.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jneumeth.2004.10.009 
PMID: 15848239  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2697. Eur J Neurosci. 2005 Mar;21(6):1733-40.

Autonomic arousal in an appetitive context in primates: a behavioural and neural 
analysis.

Braesicke K(1), Parkinson JA, Reekie Y, Man MS, Hopewell L, Pears A, Crofts H,
Schnell CR, Roberts AC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, University of Cambridge, Downing Street, Cambridge, CB2
3DY, UK.

Central to many emotional responses is the accompanying peripheral somatic and
autonomic arousal, feedback from which has been hypothesized to enhance emotional
memory and to contribute to appraisal processes and decision making, and
dysfunction of which may contribute to antisocial behaviour. Whilst peripheral
arousal may accompany both positive and negative emotional contexts, its
relationship with the former is poorly understood, as are the neural mechanisms
underlying such a relationship. The purpose of the present study was to determine
the autonomic correlates of anticipation, as well as consumption, of high
incentive food, in the freely moving common marmoset and to investigate the
contribution of the amygdala to such effects. Blood pressure (BP) and heart rate 
(HR) were measured remotely by a telemetric device implanted into the descending 
aorta and behavioural responses were monitored whilst marmosets viewed preferred 
or non-preferred foods and were then allowed access to eat those foods. A marked 
rise in blood pressure in unrestrained marmosets was observed in response both to
the sight of highly preferred foods (anticipatory period) as well as during the
actual consumption of those foods (consummatory period). Excitotoxic lesions of
the amygdala abolished the autonomic arousal in the anticipatory period, but
spared both the behavioural arousal in the anticipatory period and the autonomic 
arousal in the consummatory period. Together these data serve as an important
step towards understanding the role of autonomic arousal in emotion and its
neural underpinnings.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2005.03987.x 
PMID: 15845101  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

