

2698. Eur J Neurosci. 2005 Mar;21(6):1521-35.

Postnatal ontogeny of hippocampal expression of the mineralocorticoid and
glucocorticoid receptors in the common marmoset monkey.

Pryce CR(1), Feldon J, Fuchs E, Knuesel I, Oertle T, Sengstag C, Spengler M,
Weber E, Weston A, Jongen-Rélo A.

Author information: 
(1)Behavioural Neurobiology Laboratory, Swiss Federal Institute of Technology,
Schorenstrasse 16, CH-8603 Schwerzenbach, Switzerland. pryce@behav.biol.ethz.ch

The mineralocorticoid receptor (MR) and glucocorticoid receptor (GR) are nuclear 
transcription factors that mediate many of the basal and stress functions and
effects of the corticosteroid hormones, including those related to brain
development. Despite this, relatively little is known about the postnatal
ontogeny of MR and GR gene and protein expression in the central nervous system, 
and this is particularly true of the primates, including humans. Here we describe
the postnatal ontogeny of central MR and GR gene and protein expression in the
common marmoset monkey. By developing marmoset-specific riboprobes and using in
situ hybridization, it was demonstrated that MR mRNA expression in the dentate
gyrus and Ammon's horn was significantly greater in marmoset infants (aged 4-6
weeks) than in neonates (1-2 days), juveniles (4-5 months) and adults (3-6
years), with expression in the latter three ontogenetic stages being broadly
similar. In the same subjects and ontogenetic stages, GR mRNA expression was
developmentally consistent in the marmoset dentate gyrus and Ammon's horn, as
well as in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus. Qualitative
immunohistochemical comparison of infants and adults demonstrated that MR protein
expression in the hippocampus was, as for mRNA, also greater in infants than
adults, and that hippocampal GR protein was, as for mRNA, also similar in infants
and adults. The increase in MR mRNA expression between the stages of neonate and 
infant co-occurred with a reduction in basal plasma ACTH and cortisol titres. The
ontogenetic profiles of MR and GR gene expression in the marmoset monkey are
therefore fundamentally different from those described for the rat and the mouse.
This evidence for the postnatal ontogeny of central corticosteroid nuclear
receptor expression in a primate is important for understanding both the
developmental stage-specific significance of stress exposure and its potential
long-term effects on health and disease.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2005.04003.x 
PMID: 15845080  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2699. J Comp Neurol. 2005 May 30;486(2):179-96.

Postnatal development of alkaline phosphatase activity correlates with the
maturation of neurotransmission in the cerebral cortex.

Fonta C(1), Negyessy L, Renaud L, Barone P.

Author information: 
(1)Cerveau et Cognition, Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique-Université 
Paul Sabatier UMR5549, Faculté de Médecine Rangueil, 31062 Toulouse Cedex,
France. caroline.fonta@cerco.ups-tlse.fr

We have shown previously that the tissue nonspecific alkaline phosphatase (TNAP) 
is selectively expressed in the synaptic cleft of sensory cortical areas in adult
mammals and, by using sensory deprivation, that TNAP activity depends on
thalamocortical activity. We further analyzed this structural functional
relationship by comparing the developmental pattern of TNAP activity to the
maturation of the thalamocortical afferents in the primate brain (Callithrix
jacchus). Cortical expression of alkaline phosphatase (AP) activity reflects the 
sequential maturation of the modality-specific sensory areas. Within the visual
cortex, the regional and laminar distribution of AP correlates with the
differential maturation of the magno- and parvocellular streams. AP activity,
which is transiently expressed in the white matter, exhibits a complementary
distributional pattern with myelin staining. Ultrastructural analysis revealed
that AP activity is localized exclusively to the myelin-free axonal segments,
including the node of Ranvier. It was also found that AP activity is gradually
expressed in parallel with the maturation of synaptic contacts in the neuropile. 
These data suggest the involvement of AP, in addition to neurotransmitter
synthesis previously suggested in the adult, in synaptic stabilization and in
myelin pattern formation and put forward a role of AP in cortical plasticity and 
brain disorders.

Copyright 2005 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.20524 
PMID: 15844208  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

