

2699. J Comp Neurol. 2005 May 30;486(2):179-96.

Postnatal development of alkaline phosphatase activity correlates with the
maturation of neurotransmission in the cerebral cortex.

Fonta C(1), Negyessy L, Renaud L, Barone P.

Author information: 
(1)Cerveau et Cognition, Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique-Université 
Paul Sabatier UMR5549, Faculté de Médecine Rangueil, 31062 Toulouse Cedex,
France. caroline.fonta@cerco.ups-tlse.fr

We have shown previously that the tissue nonspecific alkaline phosphatase (TNAP) 
is selectively expressed in the synaptic cleft of sensory cortical areas in adult
mammals and, by using sensory deprivation, that TNAP activity depends on
thalamocortical activity. We further analyzed this structural functional
relationship by comparing the developmental pattern of TNAP activity to the
maturation of the thalamocortical afferents in the primate brain (Callithrix
jacchus). Cortical expression of alkaline phosphatase (AP) activity reflects the 
sequential maturation of the modality-specific sensory areas. Within the visual
cortex, the regional and laminar distribution of AP correlates with the
differential maturation of the magno- and parvocellular streams. AP activity,
which is transiently expressed in the white matter, exhibits a complementary
distributional pattern with myelin staining. Ultrastructural analysis revealed
that AP activity is localized exclusively to the myelin-free axonal segments,
including the node of Ranvier. It was also found that AP activity is gradually
expressed in parallel with the maturation of synaptic contacts in the neuropile. 
These data suggest the involvement of AP, in addition to neurotransmitter
synthesis previously suggested in the adult, in synaptic stabilization and in
myelin pattern formation and put forward a role of AP in cortical plasticity and 
brain disorders.

Copyright 2005 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.20524 
PMID: 15844208  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2700. Behav Neurosci. 2005 Apr;119(2):518-25.

Mild topographical memory impairment following crossed unilateral lesions of the 
mediodorsal thalamic nucleus and the inferotemporal cortex.

Ridley RM(1), Baker HF, Cummings RM, Green ME, Leow-Dyke A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, University of Cambridge, Cambridge,
United Kingdom.

Monkeys with crossed unilateral lesions of the dorsomedial thalamus and
contralateral ablations of the inferotemporal cortex were mildly impaired on
acquisition and retention of visual conditional tasks requiring the integration
of information about objects and their positions in space. They were not impaired
on other conditional and nonconditional tasks. This impairment pattern resembles,
qualitatively, that found following crossed unilateral lesions of the anterior
thalamus and the inferotemporal cortex or bilateral lesions of the anterior and
mediodorsal thalamic nuclei. Although the flow of visual information from the
inferotemporal cortex through the hippocampal-fornix-anterior thalamic circuit
plays a major part in memory for objects in places, the flow of information
between inferotemporal cortex and mediodorsal thalamus, possibly by means of the 
frontal cortex, also makes some contribution.

Copyright (c) 2005 APA, all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1037/0735-7044.119.2.518 
PMID: 15839798  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

