

2700. Behav Neurosci. 2005 Apr;119(2):518-25.

Mild topographical memory impairment following crossed unilateral lesions of the 
mediodorsal thalamic nucleus and the inferotemporal cortex.

Ridley RM(1), Baker HF, Cummings RM, Green ME, Leow-Dyke A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, University of Cambridge, Cambridge,
United Kingdom.

Monkeys with crossed unilateral lesions of the dorsomedial thalamus and
contralateral ablations of the inferotemporal cortex were mildly impaired on
acquisition and retention of visual conditional tasks requiring the integration
of information about objects and their positions in space. They were not impaired
on other conditional and nonconditional tasks. This impairment pattern resembles,
qualitatively, that found following crossed unilateral lesions of the anterior
thalamus and the inferotemporal cortex or bilateral lesions of the anterior and
mediodorsal thalamic nuclei. Although the flow of visual information from the
inferotemporal cortex through the hippocampal-fornix-anterior thalamic circuit
plays a major part in memory for objects in places, the flow of information
between inferotemporal cortex and mediodorsal thalamus, possibly by means of the 
frontal cortex, also makes some contribution.

Copyright (c) 2005 APA, all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1037/0735-7044.119.2.518 
PMID: 15839798  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2701. Am J Primatol. 2005 Apr;65(4):301-12.

Adult-infant food transfer in common marmosets: an experimental study.

Brown GR(1), Almond RE, Bates NJ.

Author information: 
(1)Subdepartment of Animal Behaviour, Department of Zoology, University of
Cambridge, Cambridge, United Kingdom. grb4@st-andrews.ac.uk

Infant marmosets and tamarins obtain solid food items from adults during and
after the time of weaning. In addition to providing nutrients, food transfers may
provide infants with the opportunity to learn about diet. The aim of this study
was to investigate patterns of begging and food transfer in captive groups of
common marmosets during tests with 1) palatable novel food, 2) unpalatable novel 
food, and 3) familiar food. Infants may gain an opportunity to learn about diet
breadth by preferentially begging for novel rather than familiar items, while
adults may facilitate infant learning by differing in their willingness to
transfer food depending upon the food's novelty or palatability. In this study,
infants exhibited more interest and begging with novel food items than with
familiar ones. However, food transfers were not more likely to occur with novel
foods than with familiar ones, and in fact adults were more likely to refuse
infant begging attempts with novel foods. The palatability of the food also did
not influence the rates of refusal and transfer: adults transferred palatable and
unpalatable novel foods with similar frequencies. These results suggest that
infant marmosets gain an opportunity to learn about diet breadth by begging for
novel foods, but adults do not preferentially transfer novel or palatable food
items.

Copyright 2005 Wiley-Liss, Inc

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20117 
PMID: 15834892  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

