

2701. Am J Primatol. 2005 Apr;65(4):301-12.

Adult-infant food transfer in common marmosets: an experimental study.

Brown GR(1), Almond RE, Bates NJ.

Author information: 
(1)Subdepartment of Animal Behaviour, Department of Zoology, University of
Cambridge, Cambridge, United Kingdom. grb4@st-andrews.ac.uk

Infant marmosets and tamarins obtain solid food items from adults during and
after the time of weaning. In addition to providing nutrients, food transfers may
provide infants with the opportunity to learn about diet. The aim of this study
was to investigate patterns of begging and food transfer in captive groups of
common marmosets during tests with 1) palatable novel food, 2) unpalatable novel 
food, and 3) familiar food. Infants may gain an opportunity to learn about diet
breadth by preferentially begging for novel rather than familiar items, while
adults may facilitate infant learning by differing in their willingness to
transfer food depending upon the food's novelty or palatability. In this study,
infants exhibited more interest and begging with novel food items than with
familiar ones. However, food transfers were not more likely to occur with novel
foods than with familiar ones, and in fact adults were more likely to refuse
infant begging attempts with novel foods. The palatability of the food also did
not influence the rates of refusal and transfer: adults transferred palatable and
unpalatable novel foods with similar frequencies. These results suggest that
infant marmosets gain an opportunity to learn about diet breadth by begging for
novel foods, but adults do not preferentially transfer novel or palatable food
items.

Copyright 2005 Wiley-Liss, Inc

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20117 
PMID: 15834892  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2702. Brain Res Bull. 2005 May 15;65(5):433-42.

Further analysis of the effects of immunotoxic lesions of the basal nucleus of
Meynert reveals substantial impairment on visual discrimination learning in
monkeys.

Ridley RM(1), Baker HF, Leow-Dyke A, Cummings RM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, Downing Street, Cambridge CB2 3EB, UK. 
rmr21@cam.ac.uk

In this paper we undertake a combined analysis of several studies in which
marmoset monkeys received immunotoxic lesions of the cortical cholinergic
projections from the basal nucleus of Meynert (NBM) bilaterally and/or in
combination with immunotoxic lesions of other parts of the cholinergic system or 
ablations of the target inferotemporal neocortical area. Analysis of the mean
learning scores across all visual discriminations learning tasks for each lesion 
combination revealed highly significant impairments where the NBM was lesioned
bilaterally or where an NBM lesion in one hemisphere was crossed with an
inferotemporal cortical ablation in the other hemisphere. This demonstrates that 
the cholinergic projection from the NBM to the major target area of neocortex
involved in visual discrimination learning, i.e. the inferotemporal cortex, makes
an important contribution to the perceptuo-mnemonic processes necessary for this 
type of learning. A new study demonstrates a significant effect of a subtotal
bilateral cholinergic lesion confined to the NBM on a concurrent object-reward
association task using black objects which is perceptually and mnemonically
demanding. These results do not preclude the possibility that cholinergic
projections from the NBM to other parts of the neocortex make a contribution to
other cortical functions which are not mnemonic. It is well established that
lesions of the cholinergic projection from the diagonal band of Broca disrupts
the mnemonic functions of the hippocampus. The results described here suggest
that degeneration of the cholinergic projections in Alzheimer's disease and other
dementias will contribute to the loss of those mnemonic functions which are
dependent on the neocortex.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brainresbull.2005.02.025 
PMID: 15833598  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

