

2702. Brain Res Bull. 2005 May 15;65(5):433-42.

Further analysis of the effects of immunotoxic lesions of the basal nucleus of
Meynert reveals substantial impairment on visual discrimination learning in
monkeys.

Ridley RM(1), Baker HF, Leow-Dyke A, Cummings RM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, Downing Street, Cambridge CB2 3EB, UK. 
rmr21@cam.ac.uk

In this paper we undertake a combined analysis of several studies in which
marmoset monkeys received immunotoxic lesions of the cortical cholinergic
projections from the basal nucleus of Meynert (NBM) bilaterally and/or in
combination with immunotoxic lesions of other parts of the cholinergic system or 
ablations of the target inferotemporal neocortical area. Analysis of the mean
learning scores across all visual discriminations learning tasks for each lesion 
combination revealed highly significant impairments where the NBM was lesioned
bilaterally or where an NBM lesion in one hemisphere was crossed with an
inferotemporal cortical ablation in the other hemisphere. This demonstrates that 
the cholinergic projection from the NBM to the major target area of neocortex
involved in visual discrimination learning, i.e. the inferotemporal cortex, makes
an important contribution to the perceptuo-mnemonic processes necessary for this 
type of learning. A new study demonstrates a significant effect of a subtotal
bilateral cholinergic lesion confined to the NBM on a concurrent object-reward
association task using black objects which is perceptually and mnemonically
demanding. These results do not preclude the possibility that cholinergic
projections from the NBM to other parts of the neocortex make a contribution to
other cortical functions which are not mnemonic. It is well established that
lesions of the cholinergic projection from the diagonal band of Broca disrupts
the mnemonic functions of the hippocampus. The results described here suggest
that degeneration of the cholinergic projections in Alzheimer's disease and other
dementias will contribute to the loss of those mnemonic functions which are
dependent on the neocortex.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brainresbull.2005.02.025 
PMID: 15833598  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2703. Cell Tissue Res. 2005 Jun;320(3):379-92. Epub 2005 Apr 9.

Differential expression of the GABA transporters GAT-1 and GAT-3 in brains of
rats, cats, monkeys and humans.

Pow DV(1), Sullivan RK, Williams SM, Scott HL, Dodd PR, Finkelstein D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, School of Biomedical Sciences,
University of Queensland, Brisbane, 4072, Australia. d.pow@eaats.org

The homeostasis of GABA is critical to normal brain function. Extracellular
levels of GABA are regulated mainly by plasmalemmal gamma-aminobutyric acid
(GABA) transporters. Whereas the expression of GABA transporters has been
extensively studied in rodents, validation of this data in other species,
including humans, has been limited. As this information is crucial for our
understanding of therapeutic options in human diseases such as epilepsy, we have 
compared, by immunocytochemistry, the distributions of the GABA transporters
GAT-1 and GAT-3 in rats, cats, monkeys and humans. We demonstrate subtle
differences between the results reported in the literature and our results, such 
as the predominance of GAT-1 labelling in neurons rather than astrocytes in the
rat cortex. We note that the optimal localisation of GAT-1 in cats, monkeys and
humans requires the use of an antibody against the human sequence carboxyl
terminal region of GAT-1 rather than against the slightly different rat sequence.
We demonstrate that GAT-3 is localised mainly to astrocytes in hindbrain and
midbrain regions of rat brains. However, in species such as cats, monkeys and
humans, additional strong immunolabelling of oligodendrocytes has also been
observed. We suggest that differences in GAT distribution, especially the
expression of GAT-3 by oligodendrocytes in humans, must be accommodated in
extrapolating rodent models of GABA homeostasis to humans.

DOI: 10.1007/s00441-004-0928-0 
PMID: 15821932  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

