

2705. Arch Toxicol. 2005 Mar;79(3):147-54. Epub 2004 Nov 11.

Species differences in the metabolism of di(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (DEHP) in
several organs of mice, rats, and marmosets.

Ito Y(1), Yokota H, Wang R, Yamanoshita O, Ichihara G, Wang H, Kurata Y, Takagi
K, Nakajima T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Occupational and Environmental Health, Nagoya University
Graduate School of Medicine, 466-8550, Nagoya, Japan.

To clarify species differences in the metabolism of di(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate
(DEHP) we measured the activity of four DEHP-metabolizing enzymes (lipase,
UDP-glucuronyltransferase (UGT), alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH), and aldehyde
dehydrogenase (ALDH)) in several organs (the liver, lungs, kidneys, and small
intestine) of mice (CD-1), rats (Sprague-Dawley), and marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus). Lipase activity, measured by the rate of formation of
mono(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (MEHP) from DEHP, differed by 27- to 357-fold among 
species; the activity was highest in the small intestines of mice and lowest in
the lungs of marmosets. This might be because of the significant differences
between Vmax/Km values of lipase for DEHP among the species. UGT activity for
MEHP in the liver microsomes was highest in mice, followed by rats and marmosets.
These differences, however, were only marginal compared with those for lipase
activity. ADH and ALDH activity also differed among species; the activity of the 
former in the livers of marmosets was 1.6-3.9 times greater than in those of rats
or mice; the activity of the latter was higher in rats and marmosets (2-14 times)
than in mice. These results were quite different from those for lipase or UGT
activity. Because MEHP is considered to be the more potent ligand to peroxisome
proliferator-activated receptor alpha involved in different toxic processes, a
possibly major difference in MEHP-formation capacity could be also considered on 
extrapolation from rodents to humans.

DOI: 10.1007/s00204-004-0615-7 
PMID: 15798888  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2706. Mol Reprod Dev. 2005 Jun;71(2):247-55.

Ejaculates from the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) contain semenogelin and 
beta-microseminoprotein but not prostate-specific antigen.

Valtonen-André C(1), Olsson AY, Nayudu PL, Lundwall A.

Author information: 
(1)Wallenberg Laboratory, Department of Laboratory Medicine, Lund University,
University Hospital MAS, Malmö, Sweden. C.Valtonen-Andre@klkemi.mas.lu.se

Human seminal plasma contains high concentrations of prostatic acid phosphatase
(PAP), prostate-specific antigen (PSA), beta-microseminoprotein (MSP),
semenogelin I (SgI), and semenogelin II (SgII), whereas only PAP and MSP are
present in rodents. In order to gain a better understanding of the evolution and 
function of semen proteins, we have studied ejaculates from the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus)-a New World monkey. Semen samples were analyzed with
SDS-PAGE, Western blotting, and isoelectric focusing. Under reducing conditions
the dominating protein components appear as heterogeneous material of 55-70 kDa
and distinct protein bands of 85, 17, 16, and 15 kDa. The heterogeneous material 
contains glycosylated material detected by an antiserum recognizing both human
SgI and SgII. Southern blotting indicates that the common marmoset has genes for 
both SgI and SgII. There are several marmoset MSP genes, but the strong
immunoreactivity against one 15 kDa semen component with pI 7.3 suggests
preferential expression of one gene in the prostate. Expression of two other
genes cannot be excluded as indicated by weak reaction to isoforms with pI 6.6
and 4.9. Unexpectedly, PSA was not detected by either immunological methods or
activity measurements. This is in agreement with results from Southern blotting
suggesting that the common marmoset might not have a PSA gene. Thus, in this
study we have shown that semen coagulum proteins are present in marmoset seminal 
plasma, but the lack of PSA precludes a similar liquefaction as of human semen.

Copyright 2005 Wiley-Liss, Inc

DOI: 10.1002/mrd.20257 
PMID: 15791587  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

