

2706. Mol Reprod Dev. 2005 Jun;71(2):247-55.

Ejaculates from the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) contain semenogelin and 
beta-microseminoprotein but not prostate-specific antigen.

Valtonen-André C(1), Olsson AY, Nayudu PL, Lundwall A.

Author information: 
(1)Wallenberg Laboratory, Department of Laboratory Medicine, Lund University,
University Hospital MAS, Malmö, Sweden. C.Valtonen-Andre@klkemi.mas.lu.se

Human seminal plasma contains high concentrations of prostatic acid phosphatase
(PAP), prostate-specific antigen (PSA), beta-microseminoprotein (MSP),
semenogelin I (SgI), and semenogelin II (SgII), whereas only PAP and MSP are
present in rodents. In order to gain a better understanding of the evolution and 
function of semen proteins, we have studied ejaculates from the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus)-a New World monkey. Semen samples were analyzed with
SDS-PAGE, Western blotting, and isoelectric focusing. Under reducing conditions
the dominating protein components appear as heterogeneous material of 55-70 kDa
and distinct protein bands of 85, 17, 16, and 15 kDa. The heterogeneous material 
contains glycosylated material detected by an antiserum recognizing both human
SgI and SgII. Southern blotting indicates that the common marmoset has genes for 
both SgI and SgII. There are several marmoset MSP genes, but the strong
immunoreactivity against one 15 kDa semen component with pI 7.3 suggests
preferential expression of one gene in the prostate. Expression of two other
genes cannot be excluded as indicated by weak reaction to isoforms with pI 6.6
and 4.9. Unexpectedly, PSA was not detected by either immunological methods or
activity measurements. This is in agreement with results from Southern blotting
suggesting that the common marmoset might not have a PSA gene. Thus, in this
study we have shown that semen coagulum proteins are present in marmoset seminal 
plasma, but the lack of PSA precludes a similar liquefaction as of human semen.

Copyright 2005 Wiley-Liss, Inc

DOI: 10.1002/mrd.20257 
PMID: 15791587  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2707. Eur J Neurosci. 2005 Feb;21(4):841-54.

A modified MPTP treatment regime produces reproducible partial nigrostriatal
lesions in common marmosets.

Iravani MM(1), Syed E, Jackson MJ, Johnston LC, Smith LA, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Research Centre, GKT School of Biomedical Sciences, 
King's College, London SE1 1UL, UK.

Standard MPTP treatment regimens in primates result in > 85% destruction of
nigral dopaminergic neurons and the onset of marked motor deficits that respond
to known symptomatic treatments for Parkinson's disease (PD). The extent of
nigral degeneration reflects the late stages of PD rather than events occurring
at its onset. We report on a modified MPTP treatment regimen that causes nigral
dopaminergic degeneration in common marmosets equivalent to that occurring at the
time of initiation of motor symptoms in man. Subcutaneous administration of MPTP 
1 mg/kg for 3 consecutive days caused a reproducible 60% loss of nigral tyrosine 
hydroxylase (TH)-positive cells, which occurred mainly in the
calbindin-D(28k)-poor nigrosomes with a similar loss of TH-immunoreactivity
(TH-ir) in the caudate nucleus and the putamen. The animals showed obvious motor 
abnormalities with reduced bursts of activity and the onset of motor disability. 
However, the loss of striatal terminals did not reflect early PD because a
greater loss of TH-ir occurred in the caudate nucleus than in the putamen and a
marked reduction in TH-ir occurred in striatal patches compared to the matrix.
Examination of striatal fibres following a partial MPTP lesion showed a
conspicuous increase in the number and the diameter of large branching fibres in 
the putaminal and to some extent caudatal matrix, pointing to a possible
compensatory sprouting of dopaminergic terminals. In addition, these partially
lesioned animals did not respond to acute treatment with L-DOPA. This primate
partial lesions model may be useful for examining potential neuroprotective or
neurorestorative agents for PD.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2005.03915.x 
PMID: 15787691  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

