

2709. J Neurosci Res. 2005 Apr 15;80(2):172-81.

Establishment of graded spinal cord injury model in a nonhuman primate: the
common marmoset.

Iwanami A(1), Yamane J, Katoh H, Nakamura M, Momoshima S, Ishii H, Tanioka Y,
Tamaoki N, Nomura T, Toyama Y, Okano H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, Shinjuku, Tokyo,
Japan.

Most previous studies on spinal cord injury (SCI) have used rodent models. Direct
extrapolation of the results obtained in rodents to clinical cases is difficult, 
however, because of neurofunctional and anatomic differences between rodents and 
primates. In the present study, the development of histopathologic changes and
functional deficits were assessed quantitatively after mild, moderate, and severe
spinal cord contusive injuries in common marmosets. Contusive SCI was induced by 
dropping one of three different weights (15, 17, or 20 g) at the C5 level from a 
height of 50 mm. Serial magnetic resonance images showed significant differences 
in the intramedullary T1 low signal and T2 high signal areas among the three
groups. Quantitative histologic analyses revealed that the number of motor
neurons, the myelinated areas, and the amounts of corticospinal tract fibers
decreased significantly as the injury increased in severity. Motor functions were
evaluated using the following tests: original behavioral scoring scale,
measurements of spontaneous motor activity, bar grip test, and cage-climbing
test. Significant differences in all test results were observed among the three
groups. Spontaneous motor activities at 10 weeks after injury were closely
correlated with the residual myelinated area at the lesion epicenter. The
establishment of a reliable nonhuman primate model for SCI with objective
functional evaluation methods should become an essential tool for future SCI
treatment studies. Quantitative behavioral and histopathologic analyses enabled
three distinct grades of injury severity (15-g, 17-g, and 20-g groups) to be
characterized with heavier weights producing more serious injuries, and
relatively constant behavioral and histopathologic outcomes.

2005 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jnr.20435 
PMID: 15772980  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2710. J Neurosci Res. 2005 Apr 15;80(2):182-90.

Transplantation of human neural stem cells for spinal cord injury in primates.

Iwanami A(1), Kaneko S, Nakamura M, Kanemura Y, Mori H, Kobayashi S, Yamasaki M, 
Momoshima S, Ishii H, Ando K, Tanioka Y, Tamaoki N, Nomura T, Toyama Y, Okano H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, Shinjuku, Tokyo,
Japan.

Recent studies have shown that delayed transplantation of neural stem/progenitor 
cells (NSPCs) into the injured spinal cord can promote functional recovery in
adult rats. Preclinical studies using nonhuman primates, however, are necessary
before NSPCs can be used in clinical trials to treat human patients with spinal
cord injury (SCI). Cervical contusion SCIs were induced in 10 adult common
marmosets using a stereotaxic device. Nine days after injury, in vitro-expanded
human NSPCs were transplanted into the spinal cord of five randomly selected
animals, and the other sham-operated control animals received culture medium
alone. Motor functions were evaluated through measurements of bar grip power and 
spontaneous motor activity, and temporal changes in the intramedullary signals
were monitored by magnetic resonance imaging. Eight weeks after transplantation, 
all animals were sacrificed. Histologic analysis revealed that the grafted human 
NSPCs survived and differentiated into neurons, astrocytes, and oligodendrocytes,
and that the cavities were smaller than those in sham-operated control animals.
The bar grip power and the spontaneous motor activity of the transplanted animals
were significantly higher than those of sham-operated control animals. These
findings show that NSPC transplantation was effective for SCI in primates and
suggest that human NSPC transplantation could be a feasible treatment for human
SCI.
