

2710. J Neurosci Res. 2005 Apr 15;80(2):182-90.

Transplantation of human neural stem cells for spinal cord injury in primates.

Iwanami A(1), Kaneko S, Nakamura M, Kanemura Y, Mori H, Kobayashi S, Yamasaki M, 
Momoshima S, Ishii H, Ando K, Tanioka Y, Tamaoki N, Nomura T, Toyama Y, Okano H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, Shinjuku, Tokyo,
Japan.

Recent studies have shown that delayed transplantation of neural stem/progenitor 
cells (NSPCs) into the injured spinal cord can promote functional recovery in
adult rats. Preclinical studies using nonhuman primates, however, are necessary
before NSPCs can be used in clinical trials to treat human patients with spinal
cord injury (SCI). Cervical contusion SCIs were induced in 10 adult common
marmosets using a stereotaxic device. Nine days after injury, in vitro-expanded
human NSPCs were transplanted into the spinal cord of five randomly selected
animals, and the other sham-operated control animals received culture medium
alone. Motor functions were evaluated through measurements of bar grip power and 
spontaneous motor activity, and temporal changes in the intramedullary signals
were monitored by magnetic resonance imaging. Eight weeks after transplantation, 
all animals were sacrificed. Histologic analysis revealed that the grafted human 
NSPCs survived and differentiated into neurons, astrocytes, and oligodendrocytes,
and that the cavities were smaller than those in sham-operated control animals.
The bar grip power and the spontaneous motor activity of the transplanted animals
were significantly higher than those of sham-operated control animals. These
findings show that NSPC transplantation was effective for SCI in primates and
suggest that human NSPC transplantation could be a feasible treatment for human
SCI.

2005 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jnr.20436 
PMID: 15772979  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2711. J Neurophysiol. 2005 Jul;94(1):83-104. Epub 2005 Mar 16.

Long-lasting modulation by stimulus context in primate auditory cortex.

Bartlett EL(1), Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
720 Rutland Avenue, Traylor 412, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland
21205, USA. bartlett@bme.jhu.edu

A sound embedded in an acoustic stream cannot be unambiguously segmented and
identified without reference to its stimulus context. To understand the role of
stimulus context in cortical processing, we investigated the responses of
auditory cortical neurons to 2-sound sequences in awake marmosets, with a focus
on stimulus properties other than carrier frequency. Both suppressive and
facilitatory modulations of cortical responses were observed by using
combinations of modulated tone and noise stimuli. The main findings are as
follows. 1) Preceding stimuli could suppress or facilitate responses to
succeeding stimuli for durations >1 s. These long-lasting effects were dependent 
on the duration, sound level, and modulation parameters of the preceding
stimulus, in addition to the carrier frequency. They occurred regardless of
whether the 2 stimuli were separated by a silent interval. 2) Suppression was
often tuned such that preceding stimuli whose parameters were similar to
succeeding stimuli produced the strongest suppression. However, the responses of 
many units could be suppressed, although often weaker, even when the 2 stimuli
were dissimilar. In some cases, only a dissimilar preceding stimulus produced
suppression in the responses to the succeeding stimulus. 3) In contrast to
suppression, facilitation of responses to succeeding stimuli by the preceding
stimulus was usually strongest when the 2 stimuli were dissimilar. 4) There was
no clear correlation between the firing rate evoked by the preceding stimulus and
the change in the firing rate evoked by the succeeding stimulus, indicating that 
the observed suppression was not simply a result of habituation or spike
adaptation. These results demonstrate that persistent modulations of the
responses of an auditory cortical neuron to a given stimulus can be induced by
preceding stimuli. Decreases or increases of responses to the succeeding stimuli 
are dependent on the spectral, temporal, and intensity properties of the
preceding stimulus. This indicates that cortical auditory responses to a sound
are not static, but instead depend on the stimulus context in a stimulus-specific
manner. The long-lasting impact of stimulus context and the prevalence of
facilitation suggest that such cortical response properties are important for
auditory processing beyond forward masking, such as for auditory streaming and
segregation.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.01124.2004 
PMID: 15772236  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

