

2713. J Neurosci. 2005 Mar 9;25(10):2490-503.

Plasticity in primary auditory cortex of monkeys with altered vocal production.

Cheung SW(1), Nagarajan SS, Schreiner CE, Bedenbaugh PH, Wong A.

Author information: 
(1)Coleman Memorial Laboratory and W. M. Keck Center for Integrative
Neuroscience, Department of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, University of
California, San Francisco, California 94143-0342, USA. scheung@ohns.ucsf.edu

Response properties of primary auditory cortical neurons in the adult common
marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus) were modified by extensive exposure to
altered vocalizations that were self-generated and rehearsed frequently. A
laryngeal apparatus modification procedure permanently lowered the frequency
content of the native twitter call, a complex communication vocalization
consisting of a series of frequency modulation (FM) sweeps. Monkeys vocalized
shortly after this procedure and maintained voicing efforts until physiological
evaluation 5-15 months later. The altered twitter calls improved over time, with 
FM sweeps approaching but never reaching the normal spectral range. Neurons with 
characteristic frequencies <4.3 kHz that had been weakly activated by native
twitter calls were recruited to encode self-uttered altered twitter
vocalizations. These neurons showed a decrease in response magnitude and an
increase in temporal dispersion of response timing to twitter call and parametric
FM stimuli but a normal response profile to pure tone stimuli. Tonotopic maps in 
voice-modified monkeys were not distorted. These findings suggest a previously
unrecognized form of cortical plasticity that is specific to higher-order
processes involved in the discrimination of more complex sounds, such as
species-specific vocalizations.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.5289-04.2005 
PMCID: PMC4060626
PMID: 15758157  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2714. Vet Pathol. 2005 Mar;42(2):117-24.

Systemic AA amyloidosis in the common marmoset.

Ludlage E(1), Murphy CL, Davern SM, Solomon A, Weiss DT, Glenn-Smith D, Dworkin
S, Mansfield KG.

Author information: 
(1)New England Primate Research Center, Harvard Medical School, Southborough, MA 
01772-9012, USA. elisabeth_ludlage@hms.harvard.edu

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is a small New World primate native to
Brazil that has been used extensively in biomedical research. A retrospective
analysis of archived hematoxylin and eosin-stained tissue sections and clinical
records was conducted at the New England Primate Research Center on 86 marmosets 
more than 1 year of age that were euthanized during the past decade because of
morbidity and failure to thrive. Approximately 17% (15 of 86) were found to have 
amyloid deposits in one or more organs, including the liver, adrenal glands,
kidneys, and intestine. This material was shown by amino acid sequence analysis
to be composed of serum amyloid A (SAA)-related protein. This type of
amyloidosis, designated AA or "secondary," is associated typically with an
inflammatory process that induces elevated levels of the SAA amyloidogenic
precursor molecule. Notably, there were no significant pathologic differences or 
other distinguishing features in animals with amyloid versus those without;
furthermore, on the basis of the limited number of serum specimens available for 
analysis, the SAA concentrations in the two groups were comparable, thus
suggesting the possible inheritable nature of the disorder. In this respect, the 
common marmoset provides a unique experimental model for study of the
pathogenesis and treatment of AA and other forms of systemic amyloidosis.

DOI: 10.1354/vp.42-2-117 
PMID: 15753464  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

