

2717. Cancer Res. 2005 Feb 15;65(4):1577-86.

Functional characterization of EBV-encoded nuclear antigen 1-specific CD4+ helper
and regulatory T cells elicited by in vitro peptide stimulation.

Voo KS(1), Peng G, Guo Z, Fu T, Li Y, Frappier L, Wang RF.

Author information: 
(1)The Center for Cell and Gene Therapy and Department of Immunology, Baylor
College of Medicine, Houston, Texas, USA.

CD4(+) helper and regulatory T (Treg) cells play important but opposing roles in 
regulating host immune responses against cancer and other diseases. However, very
little is known about the antigen specificity of CD4(+) Treg cells. Here we
describe the generation of a panel of EBV-encoded nuclear antigen 1
(EBNA1)-specific CD4(+) T-cell lines and clones that recognize naturally
processed EBNA1-P(607-619) and -P(561-573) peptides in the context of HLA-DQ2 and
HLA-DR11, -DR12, and -DR13 molecules, respectively. Phenotypic and functional
analyses of these CD4(+) T cells revealed that they represent EBNA1-specific
CD4(+) T helper as well as Treg cells. CD4(+) Treg cells do not secrete
interleukin (IL)-10 and transforming growth factor beta cytokines but express
CD25, the glucocorticoid-induced tumor necrosis factor receptor-related protein
(GITR), and Forkhead Box P3 (Foxp3), and are capable of suppressing the
proliferative responses of naive CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells to stimulation with
mitogenic anti-CD3 antibody. The suppressive activity of these CD4(+) Treg cells 
is mediated via cell-cell contact or in part by a cytokine-dependent manner.
Importantly, these Treg cells suppress IL-2 secretion by CD4(+) effector T cells 
specific for either EBNA1 or a melanoma antigen, suggesting that these CD4(+)
Treg cells induce immune suppression. These observations suggest that the success
of peptide-based vaccines against EBV-associated cancer and other diseases may
likely depend upon our ability to identify antigens/peptides that preferentially 
activate helper T cells and/or to design strategies to regulate the balance
between CD4(+) helper and Treg cells.

DOI: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-04-2552 
PMID: 15735048  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2718. Am J Trop Med Hyg. 2005 Jan;72(1):13-20.

Experimental leptospirosis in marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus): a new model 
for studies of severe pulmonary leptospirosis.

Pereira MM(1), Da Silva JJ, Pinto MA, Da Silva MF, Machado MP, Lenzi HL,
Marchevsky RS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Bacteriology, Oswaldo Cruz Institute/FIOCRUZ, Rio de Janeiro,
Brazil. mpereira@ioc.fiocruz.br

Experimental infection of marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) with Leptospira
interrogans serovar Copenhageni showed microscopic patterns of tissue reactions
comparable to those seen in the severe forms of human leptospirosis, including
intra-alveolar hemorrhage. The most impressive microscopic changes were seen in
the lung and kidney of animals killed at days 6 and 12 after inoculation. There
were extensive and irregular areas of hemorrhage predominating around main
bronchial branches or diffusely spread to the pulmonary parenchyma, as well as
severe tubulointerstitial nephritis. Antibody response detected by the
microscopic agglutination test was quantitatively similar to those seen in humans
and paralleled severity of tissue lesions. The distribution of leptospires or
antigenic debris in infected tissues was observed by immunofluorescence and
confocal laser scanning microscopy. Large numbers of typical leptospires were
seen in the lumen of proximal renal tubules. Positive reactions showing antigenic
debris were closely associated with sites of tissue damage.


PMID: 15728860  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

