

2721. Contemp Top Lab Anim Sci. 2005 Jan;44(1):35-7.

Septicemia and peritonitis in a colony of common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus)
secondary to Klebsiella pneumoniae infection.

Pisharath HR(1), Cooper TK, Brice AK, Cianciolo RE, Pistorio AL, Wachtman LM,
Mankowski JL, Newcomer CE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Comparative Medicine, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Ross 4th Floor, 720 Rutland Ave., Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.

Six common marmosets from a colony of 50 died over a period of 3 weeks, with the 
predominant finding of gram-negative bacterial septicemia. Four of these animals 
died peracutely; the other two were found when they were moribund, and they
subsequently died despite clinical intervention. Gram-negative bacterial rods
were present in the blood vessels of stained tissues from five of the six
marmosets. Three marmosets also had severe fibrinopurulent peritonitis. In
addition, one of the marmosets with peritonitis also had purulent mesenteric
lymphadenitis with large colonies of gram-negative bacterial rods within dialated
colonic crypts. Klebsiella pneumoniae was isolated from multiple organs in three 
of the marmosets. Clinical evaluation of the entire colony identified four
marmosets with anorexia, nasopharyngeal discharge and diarrhea. These marmosets
were treated with enrofloxacin immediately, and they responded well. K. pneumonia
could not be cultured from nasal or fecal samples obtained from the colony
animals. Because of the peracute nature of the disease, animals often die before 
exhibiting clinical symptoms, and antibiotics are seldom helpful. In this
outbreak we saw both of the major forms of Klebsiella infection in common
marmosets: the peracute form with bacteremia and minimal inflammatory reaction
around blood vessels, and the chronic form with bacteremia, fibrinopurulent
peritonitis, and mesenteric lymphadenitis.


PMID: 15697197  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2722. Cereb Cortex. 2005 Oct;15(10):1510-23. Epub 2005 Feb 2.

Dynamics of auditory-vocal interaction in monkey auditory cortex.

Eliades SJ(1), Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA.

Single neurons in the primate auditory cortex exhibit vocalization-related
modulations (excitatory or inhibitory) during self-initiated vocal production.
Previous studies have shown that these modulations of cortical activity are
variable in individual neurons' responses to multiple instances of vocalization
and diverse between different cortical neurons. The present study investigated
dynamic patterns of vocalization-related modulations and demonstrated that much
of the variability in cortical modulations was related to the acoustic structures
of self-produced vocalization. We found that suppression of single unit activity 
during multi-phrased vocalizations was temporally specific in that it was
maintained during each phrase, but was released between phrases. Furthermore, the
degree of suppression or excitation was correlated to the mean energy and
frequency of the produced vocalizations, accounting for much of the response
variability between multiple instances of vocalization. Simultaneous recordings
of pairs of neurons from a single electrode revealed that the modulations by
self-produced vocalizations in nearby neurons were largely uncorrelated.
Additionally, vocalization-induced suppression was found to be preferentially
distributed to upper cortical layers. Finally, we showed that the summation of
all auditory cortical activity during vocalization, including both single and
multi-unit responses, was weakly excitatory, consistent with observations from
studies of the human brain during speech.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhi030 
PMID: 15689521  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

