

2731. Horm Behav. 2005 Feb;47(2):151-63. Epub 2004 Dec 15.

Diminished maternal responsiveness during pregnancy in multiparous female common 
marmosets.

Saltzman W(1), Abbott DH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of California, Riverside, CA 92521, USA.
saltzman@ucr.edu

Common marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) live in small groups in which,
usually, only a single female breeds and all group members provide infant care.
When two females breed concurrently, however, they may commonly kill one
another's infants, especially during the peripartum period. To investigate the
mechanisms underlying infanticide by breeding females, we characterized responses
of multiparous females to infants and determined circulating hormone levels in
adult females during early pregnancy, late pregnancy, and the early postpartum
period. Additionally, we compared the responses of postpartum females to their
own infants and infants of other females (unfamiliar infants). Postpartum females
were highly maternal toward both their own and unfamiliar infants, and showed no 
differences in their behavioral or hormonal responses to the two. During both
early and late pregnancy, however, these females exhibited longer latencies to
initially approach unfamiliar infants and spent less time carrying unfamiliar
infants. Moreover, females spent less time carrying unfamiliar infants during
late pregnancy than early pregnancy. Most late pregnant females never carried
infants, and those that did rejected them quickly. Prolactin concentrations were 
higher and progesterone concentrations lower postpartum than in early or late
pregnancy, while estradiol concentrations, the estradiol-to-progesterone ratio,
and cortisol levels were higher during late pregnancy. Within reproductive
conditions, however, maternal behaviors were not correlated with hormone levels. 
These results suggest that maternal responsiveness in marmosets may be attenuated
during pregnancy, especially late pregnancy, and this may contribute to
infanticide by breeding females.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2004.10.001 
PMID: 15664018  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2732. J Hypertens. 2005 Feb;23(2):417-26.

Aliskiren, a novel, orally effective renin inhibitor, lowers blood pressure in
marmosets and spontaneously hypertensive rats.

Wood JM(1), Schnell CR, Cumin F, Menard J, Webb RL.

Author information: 
(1)Novartis Institute for BioMedical Research, Basel, Switzerland.

OBJECTIVES: Aliskiren is a new renin inhibitor of a novel structural class that
has recently been shown to be efficacious in hypertensive patients after
once-daily oral dosing. We report the results of animal experiments performed in 
marmosets and rats in order to characterize aliskiren before its recent
investigation in humans.
METHODS: The effects of aliskiren were investigated in sodium-depleted marmosets 
(oral dosing) and in spontaneously hypertensive rats (dosing via subcutaneous
osmotic minipumps). Blood pressure (BP) and heart rate were measured by
radiotelemetry.
RESULTS: In sodium-depleted marmosets, single oral doses of aliskiren (1-30
mg/kg) dose-dependently lowered BP. At a dose of 3 mg/kg, peak effects were
observed 1 h after dosing (-30 +/- 4 mmHg, n = 6) and the response persisted for 
more than 12 h. A single oral dose of 3 mg/kg aliskiren was more effective than
the same dose of either remikiren or zankiren, two orally active renin inhibitors
previously tested in humans. Aliskiren (10 mg/kg) was at least as effective as
equal doses of the AT1-receptor blocker valsartan or the angiotensin-converting
enzyme inhibitor benazepril. In spontaneously hypertensive rats, aliskiren
dose-dependently (10-100 mg/kg per day) decreased BP. Aliskiren also potentiated 
the antihypertensive effects of low doses of valsartan or benazeprilat (1 or 3
mg/kg per day).
CONCLUSIONS: Aliskiren is an orally effective, long-lasting renin inhibitor that 
shows antihypertensive efficacy in animals superior to previous renin inhibitors 
and at least equivalent to angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and
AT1-receptor blockers. Aliskiren may therefore represent an effective, novel
approach to the treatment of hypertension and related disorders, alone or in
combination with other antihypertensive agents.

DOI: 10.1097/00004872-200502000-00025 
PMID: 15662231  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

