

2732. J Hypertens. 2005 Feb;23(2):417-26.

Aliskiren, a novel, orally effective renin inhibitor, lowers blood pressure in
marmosets and spontaneously hypertensive rats.

Wood JM(1), Schnell CR, Cumin F, Menard J, Webb RL.

Author information: 
(1)Novartis Institute for BioMedical Research, Basel, Switzerland.

OBJECTIVES: Aliskiren is a new renin inhibitor of a novel structural class that
has recently been shown to be efficacious in hypertensive patients after
once-daily oral dosing. We report the results of animal experiments performed in 
marmosets and rats in order to characterize aliskiren before its recent
investigation in humans.
METHODS: The effects of aliskiren were investigated in sodium-depleted marmosets 
(oral dosing) and in spontaneously hypertensive rats (dosing via subcutaneous
osmotic minipumps). Blood pressure (BP) and heart rate were measured by
radiotelemetry.
RESULTS: In sodium-depleted marmosets, single oral doses of aliskiren (1-30
mg/kg) dose-dependently lowered BP. At a dose of 3 mg/kg, peak effects were
observed 1 h after dosing (-30 +/- 4 mmHg, n = 6) and the response persisted for 
more than 12 h. A single oral dose of 3 mg/kg aliskiren was more effective than
the same dose of either remikiren or zankiren, two orally active renin inhibitors
previously tested in humans. Aliskiren (10 mg/kg) was at least as effective as
equal doses of the AT1-receptor blocker valsartan or the angiotensin-converting
enzyme inhibitor benazepril. In spontaneously hypertensive rats, aliskiren
dose-dependently (10-100 mg/kg per day) decreased BP. Aliskiren also potentiated 
the antihypertensive effects of low doses of valsartan or benazeprilat (1 or 3
mg/kg per day).
CONCLUSIONS: Aliskiren is an orally effective, long-lasting renin inhibitor that 
shows antihypertensive efficacy in animals superior to previous renin inhibitors 
and at least equivalent to angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and
AT1-receptor blockers. Aliskiren may therefore represent an effective, novel
approach to the treatment of hypertension and related disorders, alone or in
combination with other antihypertensive agents.

DOI: 10.1097/00004872-200502000-00025 
PMID: 15662231  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2733. Pharmacol Biochem Behav. 2005 Jan;80(1):9-26. Epub 2004 Dec 15.

Recovery from experimental Parkinson's disease in the
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine hydrochloride treated marmoset with 
the melatonin analogue ML-23.

Willis GL(1), Robertson AD.

Author information: 
(1)The Bronowski Institute of Behavioural Neuroscience, Coliban Medical Centre,
19 Jennings Street, Kyneton, Victoria 3444, Australia. gwillbro@nex.net.au

A new mechanism has been recently proposed, whereby melatonin may participate in 
the ongoing process of neuronal degeneration in models of neurodegenerative
disorders, such as Parkinson's disease (PD). Antagonism of the melatonin receptor
in rats using constant light or pinealectomy induced recovery and reduced the
mortality typically associated with dopamine (DA) degeneration. In additional
studies, employing ML-23 in the 6-OHDA-treated rat, remission from experimental
PD was achieved using this drug in a post 6-OHDA treatment regime. To permit the 
further assessment of ML-23 as a potential clinical candidate for the treatment
of PD, the present study was undertaken to determine the efficacy of ML-23 in the
1-methyl-4-phenyl, 1,2,3,6 tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) model in the common
marmoset. ML-23 was administered orally in a dose of 3 mg/kg twice daily to half 
of the animals, while the other half received vehicle only, in a blinded
protocol, for 56 days. The effects of the treatment on positive and negative
features of MPTP-induced PD were assessed, including horizontal and vertical
movement, head checking, general behaviour and Parkinsonian condition, raisin
board performance, the ability to remove a foot label, palatable and dry food
intake, water consumption, bradykinaesia, and the positive symptoms of tremor,
obstinate progression, and agitation. On all parameters, ML-23 produced a
significant remission from MPTP-induced Parkinsonism, and this effect did not
abate when ML-23 treatment was withdrawn. In a further pilot study involving a
crossover of two animals, one animal treated previously with MPTP plus vehicle
showed some remission of negative and positive features, although ML-23 treatment
was not commenced until 8 weeks post-MPTP. Conversely, a recurrence of
Parkinsonian signs was not observed when ML-23 treatment was withdrawn and
substituted with oral vehicle. Dopamine transporter was severely impaired in all 
marmosets treated with ML-23 or vehicle for the duration of the study. These
results suggest that a novel mechanism involving melatonin is involved in the
primary aetiology of the chronic aspects of PD, and such a mechanism is not
related to the antioxidative function of this hormone. From these preliminary
results, it is concluded that ML-23 and other melatonin analogues have an
important role to play in the treatment and clinical management of Parkinson's
disease.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pbb.2004.10.022 
PMID: 15652376  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

