

2733. Pharmacol Biochem Behav. 2005 Jan;80(1):9-26. Epub 2004 Dec 15.

Recovery from experimental Parkinson's disease in the
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine hydrochloride treated marmoset with 
the melatonin analogue ML-23.

Willis GL(1), Robertson AD.

Author information: 
(1)The Bronowski Institute of Behavioural Neuroscience, Coliban Medical Centre,
19 Jennings Street, Kyneton, Victoria 3444, Australia. gwillbro@nex.net.au

A new mechanism has been recently proposed, whereby melatonin may participate in 
the ongoing process of neuronal degeneration in models of neurodegenerative
disorders, such as Parkinson's disease (PD). Antagonism of the melatonin receptor
in rats using constant light or pinealectomy induced recovery and reduced the
mortality typically associated with dopamine (DA) degeneration. In additional
studies, employing ML-23 in the 6-OHDA-treated rat, remission from experimental
PD was achieved using this drug in a post 6-OHDA treatment regime. To permit the 
further assessment of ML-23 as a potential clinical candidate for the treatment
of PD, the present study was undertaken to determine the efficacy of ML-23 in the
1-methyl-4-phenyl, 1,2,3,6 tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) model in the common
marmoset. ML-23 was administered orally in a dose of 3 mg/kg twice daily to half 
of the animals, while the other half received vehicle only, in a blinded
protocol, for 56 days. The effects of the treatment on positive and negative
features of MPTP-induced PD were assessed, including horizontal and vertical
movement, head checking, general behaviour and Parkinsonian condition, raisin
board performance, the ability to remove a foot label, palatable and dry food
intake, water consumption, bradykinaesia, and the positive symptoms of tremor,
obstinate progression, and agitation. On all parameters, ML-23 produced a
significant remission from MPTP-induced Parkinsonism, and this effect did not
abate when ML-23 treatment was withdrawn. In a further pilot study involving a
crossover of two animals, one animal treated previously with MPTP plus vehicle
showed some remission of negative and positive features, although ML-23 treatment
was not commenced until 8 weeks post-MPTP. Conversely, a recurrence of
Parkinsonian signs was not observed when ML-23 treatment was withdrawn and
substituted with oral vehicle. Dopamine transporter was severely impaired in all 
marmosets treated with ML-23 or vehicle for the duration of the study. These
results suggest that a novel mechanism involving melatonin is involved in the
primary aetiology of the chronic aspects of PD, and such a mechanism is not
related to the antioxidative function of this hormone. From these preliminary
results, it is concluded that ML-23 and other melatonin analogues have an
important role to play in the treatment and clinical management of Parkinson's
disease.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pbb.2004.10.022 
PMID: 15652376  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2734. J Neurosci. 2005 Jan 12;25(2):532-8.

Prefrontal serotonin depletion affects reversal learning but not attentional set 
shifting.

Clarke HF(1), Walker SC, Crofts HS, Dalley JW, Robbins TW, Roberts AC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 
3EB, United Kingdom.

Recently, we have shown that serotonin (5-HT) depletion from the prefrontal
cortex (PFC) of the marmoset monkey impairs performance on a serial
discrimination reversal (SDR) task, resulting in perseverative responding to the 
previously correct stimulus (Clarke et al., 2004). This pattern of impairment is 
just one example of inflexible responding seen after damage to the PFC, with
performance on the SDR task being dependent on the integrity of the orbitofrontal
cortex. However, the contribution of 5-HT to other forms of flexible responding, 
such as attentional set shifting, an ability dependent on lateral PFC (Dias et
al., 1996a), is unknown. The present study addresses this issue by examining the 
effects of 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine-induced PFC 5-HT depletions on the ability to 
shift attention between two perceptual dimensions of a compound visual stimulus
(extradimensional shift). Monkeys with selective PFC 5-HT lesions, despite being 
impaired in their ability to reverse a stimulus-reward association, were
unimpaired in their ability to make an extradimensional shift when compared with 
sham-operated controls. These findings suggest that 5-HT is critical for flexible
responding at the level of changing stimulus-reward contingencies but is not
essential for the higher-order shifting of attentional set. Thus, psychological
functions dependent on different loci within the PFC are differentially sensitive
to serotonergic modulation, a finding of relevance to our understanding of
cognitive inflexibility apparent in disorders such as obsessive-compulsive
disorder and schizophrenia.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.3690-04.2005 
PMCID: PMC6725478
PMID: 15647499  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

