

2735. J Med Virol. 2005 Feb;75(2):313-20.

Experimental norovirus infections in non-human primates.

Rockx BH(1), Bogers WM, Heeney JL, van Amerongen G, Koopmans MP.

Author information: 
(1)National Institute for Public Health and the Environment, Bilthoven, The
Netherlands.

Noroviruses, with Norwalk virus as the prototype strain, are the most common
cause of viral gastroenteritis in people of all ages. Limited information on the 
immunology of Norovirus infections has been obtained by studies both in the
natural setting and in experimentally infected volunteers. Interpretation of
these studies is difficult due to the lack of information on the history of
Norovirus exposure and the cross-reactivity of antibodies. An animal model for
Norovirus infections would be important to study the immune response, e.g., for
vaccine assessment. In the present study the susceptibility of common marmosets, 
cotton top tamarins, cynomolgus, and rhesus macaques to Norovirus infection was
tested. Following oral inoculation, low level replication may have occurred in
common marmosets and cotton top tamarins but not in cynomolgus macaques, based on
short-term viral shedding; neither clinical symptoms nor antibody responses were 
observed in these species. In contrast, rhesus macaques were found susceptible to
Norwalk virus infection as one animal shed virus for a longer period of time and 
developed Norwalk virus specific IgM and IgG responses. Further research on
Norovirus susceptibility in rhesus macaques may yield an animal model to study
the immune response and pathogenesis after Norovirus infection.

DOI: 10.1002/jmv.20273 
PMID: 15602728  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2736. Mov Disord. 2005 Apr;20(4):403-409. doi: 10.1002/mds.20345.

Topiramate reduces levodopa-induced dyskinesia in the MPTP-lesioned marmoset
model of Parkinson's disease.

Silverdale MA(1)(2), Nicholson SL(2), Crossman AR(2)(3), Brotchie JM(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Hope Hospital, Salford, Manchester, United Kingdom.
(2)Manchester Movement Disorder Laboratory, School of Biological Science,
University of Manchester, Manchester, United Kingdom.
(3)Motac Neuroscience Ltd., Williams House, Manchester Science Park, Manchester, 
United Kingdom.
(4)Toronto Western Research Institute, Toronto Western Hospital, Toronto,
Ontario, Canada.

Overactive AMPA receptor-mediated transmission may be involved in the
pathogenesis of levodopa-induced dyskinesia. The mechanism of action of the
anticonvulsant drug topiramate involves attenuation of AMPA receptor-mediated
transmission. In this study, the potential antidyskinetic action of topiramate
was examined in the MPTP-lesioned marmoset model of Parkinson's disease and
levodopa-induced dyskinesia. Topiramate significantly reduced levodopa-induced
dyskinesia, without affecting the antiparkinsonian action of levodopa. Topiramate
represents an exciting potential novel therapeutic approach to levodopa-induced
dyskinesia in patients with Parkinson's disease.

Copyright 2004 Movement Disorder Society.

DOI: 10.1002/mds.20345 
PMID: 15593312  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

