

2741. Physiol Behav. 2004 Dec 15;83(3):437-45.

Intensity of aggressive interactions modulates testosterone in male marmosets.

Ross CN(1), French JA, Patera KJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Nebraska at Omaha, Omaha, NE,
USA. cross@bigred.unl.edu

Androgen is associated with the expression of male-typical behavior, including
aggressive behavior, but high levels of androgen may be incompatible with other
behavioral systems, such as paternal care. In a variety of species of birds that 
display paternal care, testosterone (T) levels in males are maintained at low
levels, and these levels rise only in response to direct agonistic challenges.
This idea has not been thoroughly studied in mammals with biparental care, and we
exposed male marmosets (Callithrix kuhlii), a monogamous and biparental primate
to aggressive interactions with unfamiliar intruders. Urinary levels of T and
cortisol (CORT) were monitored prior to and following these interactions.
Baseline T was not correlated with variation in aggression in either residents or
intruders, and CORT was not affected by the encounters. However, males responded 
to an encounter with male intruders with changes in T that correlated with the
level of aggression displayed by the resident male during the trial. Encounters
with male intruders that elicited high frequencies of aggressive displays by the 
male resident were associated with increased T 2-6 h and 24 h following the
encounter, and encounters that had few aggressive displays resulted in no change 
or a decrease in T concentrations. Intruders did not demonstrate a significant
relationship between T and aggression. Thus, the magnitude of the hormonal
response is dependent on the intensity of aggression during a male-male
encounter, suggesting that elevated androgens are likely to be a consequence,
rather than a cause, of aggressive interactions in marmosets.

DOI: 10.1016/j.physbeh.2004.08.036 
PMID: 15581666  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2742. Horm Behav. 2005 Jan;47(1):56-64.

Neuroendocrine response to female ovulatory odors depends upon social condition
in male common marmosets, Callithrix jacchus.

Ziegler TE(1), Schultz-Darken NJ, Scott JJ, Snowdon CT, Ferris CF.

Author information: 
(1)National Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI
53715, USA. ziegler@primate.wisc.edu

Male mammals show rapid behavioral and hormonal responses to signals from
sexually receptive females. However, rapid endocrine responses to female signals 
have not been observed in a nonhuman primate. Here, we tested the behavioral and 
hormonal response of male common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) to isolated scent
secretions from ovulatory females or to vehicle control scent. Fifteen males were
tested in their home cage for behavioral and hormonal responses. These males
showed increased investigative and arousal behaviors to the ovulatory scent
compared to the vehicle scent. Time sniffing the scent substrate and the duration
of erections were significantly elevated in relation to the vehicle scent. Thirty
minutes after presentation of ovulatory scent, males showed a significant
increase in testosterone compared to the vehicle, but there was no difference in 
cortisol values. To better control for scent presentation, 15 additional males
were tested under a controlled scent exposure. Current social housing condition
influenced the male's testosterone response to the ovulatory scent. Single and
paired males showed significant increases in testosterone levels with the
ovulatory scent but did not increase cortisol levels. Single males also showed
the highest change in testosterone with the ovulatory scent, but fathers showed
no changes. These results indicate that a rapid hormonal response to sexually
arousing cues occurs in marmosets, and the data suggest that a male's social
condition influences how he responds to sexually relevant cues.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2004.08.009 
PMID: 15579266  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

