

2742. Horm Behav. 2005 Jan;47(1):56-64.

Neuroendocrine response to female ovulatory odors depends upon social condition
in male common marmosets, Callithrix jacchus.

Ziegler TE(1), Schultz-Darken NJ, Scott JJ, Snowdon CT, Ferris CF.

Author information: 
(1)National Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI
53715, USA. ziegler@primate.wisc.edu

Male mammals show rapid behavioral and hormonal responses to signals from
sexually receptive females. However, rapid endocrine responses to female signals 
have not been observed in a nonhuman primate. Here, we tested the behavioral and 
hormonal response of male common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) to isolated scent
secretions from ovulatory females or to vehicle control scent. Fifteen males were
tested in their home cage for behavioral and hormonal responses. These males
showed increased investigative and arousal behaviors to the ovulatory scent
compared to the vehicle scent. Time sniffing the scent substrate and the duration
of erections were significantly elevated in relation to the vehicle scent. Thirty
minutes after presentation of ovulatory scent, males showed a significant
increase in testosterone compared to the vehicle, but there was no difference in 
cortisol values. To better control for scent presentation, 15 additional males
were tested under a controlled scent exposure. Current social housing condition
influenced the male's testosterone response to the ovulatory scent. Single and
paired males showed significant increases in testosterone levels with the
ovulatory scent but did not increase cortisol levels. Single males also showed
the highest change in testosterone with the ovulatory scent, but fathers showed
no changes. These results indicate that a rapid hormonal response to sexually
arousing cues occurs in marmosets, and the data suggest that a male's social
condition influences how he responds to sexually relevant cues.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2004.08.009 
PMID: 15579266  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2743. Horm Behav. 2005 Jan;47(1):39-48.

Elevated urinary testosterone excretion and decreased maternal caregiving effort 
in marmosets when conception occurs during the period of infant dependence.

Fite JE(1), French JA, Patera KJ, Hopkins EC, Rukstalis M, Ross CN.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska at Omaha, Omaha, NE
68182-0274, USA. jfite@mail.unomaha.edu

The proximate mechanisms that regulate transitions in mammalian female
reproductive effort have not been widely studied. However, variation in
circulating levels of the androgenic steroid hormone testosterone (T) appears to 
mediate a trade-off between investment in current and future offspring in males
[Ketterson, E.D., Nolan, V., Jr., 1992. Hormones and life histories: an
integrative approach. Am. Nat. 140, S33-S62; Ketterson, E.D., Nolan, V., Jr.,
1994. Hormones and life histories: an integrative approach. In: L.A. Real (Ed.), 
Behavioral Mechanisms in Evolutionary Ecology, University of Chicago Press,
Chicago, pp. 327-353; Ketterson, E. D., Nolan, V., Jr., 1999. Adaptation,
exaptation, and constraint: A hormonal perspective. Am. Nat. 154S, S4-S25]. The
purpose of this study was to investigate the possibility that T is also
associated with transitions in the reproductive effort of females, by examining
the relationship between urinary T excretion, maternal caregiving behavior, and
the timing of the postpartum conception in female Wied's black tufted-ear
marmosets (Callithrix kuhlii). We examined the maternal carrying effort and
peripartum T profiles of six females across two conditions: (1) when they
conceived during the period of infant dependence (DPID), such that gestation was 
coupled with lactation; and (2) when the same females conceived after the period 
of infant dependence (APID). We also assessed the relationship between postpartum
T levels and caregiving effort. When female marmosets conceived DPID, they
dramatically reduced their caregiving effort, and had higher levels of urinary T,
relative to when they conceived APID. Further, the litter-to-litter changes in
maternal caregiving effort that we observed were related to variation in urinary 
T excretion; as weekly levels of urinary T excretion increased, concurrent
caregiving effort declined. Our results suggest that variation in T secretion may
regulate transitions in female reproductive behavior, and that the regulation of 
male and female parental behavior may be mediated by homologous neuroendocrine
mechanisms.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2004.08.005 
PMCID: PMC2981091
PMID: 15579264  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

