

2743. Horm Behav. 2005 Jan;47(1):39-48.

Elevated urinary testosterone excretion and decreased maternal caregiving effort 
in marmosets when conception occurs during the period of infant dependence.

Fite JE(1), French JA, Patera KJ, Hopkins EC, Rukstalis M, Ross CN.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska at Omaha, Omaha, NE
68182-0274, USA. jfite@mail.unomaha.edu

The proximate mechanisms that regulate transitions in mammalian female
reproductive effort have not been widely studied. However, variation in
circulating levels of the androgenic steroid hormone testosterone (T) appears to 
mediate a trade-off between investment in current and future offspring in males
[Ketterson, E.D., Nolan, V., Jr., 1992. Hormones and life histories: an
integrative approach. Am. Nat. 140, S33-S62; Ketterson, E.D., Nolan, V., Jr.,
1994. Hormones and life histories: an integrative approach. In: L.A. Real (Ed.), 
Behavioral Mechanisms in Evolutionary Ecology, University of Chicago Press,
Chicago, pp. 327-353; Ketterson, E. D., Nolan, V., Jr., 1999. Adaptation,
exaptation, and constraint: A hormonal perspective. Am. Nat. 154S, S4-S25]. The
purpose of this study was to investigate the possibility that T is also
associated with transitions in the reproductive effort of females, by examining
the relationship between urinary T excretion, maternal caregiving behavior, and
the timing of the postpartum conception in female Wied's black tufted-ear
marmosets (Callithrix kuhlii). We examined the maternal carrying effort and
peripartum T profiles of six females across two conditions: (1) when they
conceived during the period of infant dependence (DPID), such that gestation was 
coupled with lactation; and (2) when the same females conceived after the period 
of infant dependence (APID). We also assessed the relationship between postpartum
T levels and caregiving effort. When female marmosets conceived DPID, they
dramatically reduced their caregiving effort, and had higher levels of urinary T,
relative to when they conceived APID. Further, the litter-to-litter changes in
maternal caregiving effort that we observed were related to variation in urinary 
T excretion; as weekly levels of urinary T excretion increased, concurrent
caregiving effort declined. Our results suggest that variation in T secretion may
regulate transitions in female reproductive behavior, and that the regulation of 
male and female parental behavior may be mediated by homologous neuroendocrine
mechanisms.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2004.08.005 
PMCID: PMC2981091
PMID: 15579264  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2744. Glia. 2005 Mar;49(4):520-41.

Glial glutamate transporter expression patterns in brains from multiple mammalian
species.

Williams SM(1), Sullivan RK, Scott HL, Finkelstein DI, Colditz PB, Lingwood BE,
Dodd PR, Pow DV.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, School of Biomedical Sciences,
University of Queensland, Brisbane, Australia.

It is generally assumed that rodent brains can be used as representative models
of neurochemical function in other species, such as humans. We have compared the 
distributions of the predominant glial glutamate transporters in rodents,
rabbits, cats, pigs, monkeys, and humans. We identify similarities but also
significant differences between species. GLT-1v, which is abundantly expressed by
rodent astrocytes, is expressed only in a rare subset of astrocytes of cats and
humans, and appears to be absent from brains of rabbits and monkeys. Conversely, 
in the pig brain GLT-1v is expressed only by oligodendrocytes. GLAST and
GLT-1alpha expression differed significantly between species; while rodents and
rabbits exhibited uniform expression patterns in cortex, higher species,
including cats, pigs, monkeys, and humans, exhibited heterogeneities in cortical 
and hippocampal expression. Patches devoid of labeling intermingling with patches
of strong labeling were evident in areas such as temporal cortex and frontal
cortex. In addition, we noted that in human motor cortex, there were
inconsistencies in labeling for the C-terminal of GLT-1alpha and common domains
of GLT-1, suggesting that the C-terminal region may be missing or that an
unidentified splicing is present in many human astrocytes. Collectively our data 
suggest that assumptions as to the roles of glutamate transporters in any species
may need to be tested empirically.

DOI: 10.1002/glia.20139 
PMID: 15578656  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

