

2744. Glia. 2005 Mar;49(4):520-41.

Glial glutamate transporter expression patterns in brains from multiple mammalian
species.

Williams SM(1), Sullivan RK, Scott HL, Finkelstein DI, Colditz PB, Lingwood BE,
Dodd PR, Pow DV.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, School of Biomedical Sciences,
University of Queensland, Brisbane, Australia.

It is generally assumed that rodent brains can be used as representative models
of neurochemical function in other species, such as humans. We have compared the 
distributions of the predominant glial glutamate transporters in rodents,
rabbits, cats, pigs, monkeys, and humans. We identify similarities but also
significant differences between species. GLT-1v, which is abundantly expressed by
rodent astrocytes, is expressed only in a rare subset of astrocytes of cats and
humans, and appears to be absent from brains of rabbits and monkeys. Conversely, 
in the pig brain GLT-1v is expressed only by oligodendrocytes. GLAST and
GLT-1alpha expression differed significantly between species; while rodents and
rabbits exhibited uniform expression patterns in cortex, higher species,
including cats, pigs, monkeys, and humans, exhibited heterogeneities in cortical 
and hippocampal expression. Patches devoid of labeling intermingling with patches
of strong labeling were evident in areas such as temporal cortex and frontal
cortex. In addition, we noted that in human motor cortex, there were
inconsistencies in labeling for the C-terminal of GLT-1alpha and common domains
of GLT-1, suggesting that the C-terminal region may be missing or that an
unidentified splicing is present in many human astrocytes. Collectively our data 
suggest that assumptions as to the roles of glutamate transporters in any species
may need to be tested empirically.

DOI: 10.1002/glia.20139 
PMID: 15578656  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2745. Exp Clin Endocrinol Diabetes. 2004 Nov;112(10):574-9.

The carboxyterminal peptide of chorionic gonadotropin facilitates activation of
the marmoset LH receptor.

Müller T(1), Gromoll J, Simula AP, Norman R, Sandhowe-Klaverkamp R, Simoni M.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Reproductive Medicine of the University of Münster, Münster,
Germany.

Luteinizing hormone (LH) and chorionic gonadotropin (CG) are heterodimeric
glycoprotein hormones acting on the luteinizing hormone receptor (LHR). In the
LHR, which is genomically encoded by eleven exons, exon 10 encodes for the hinge 
region and its elimination impairs LH action, while CG maintains normal activity.
The two gonadotropins differ in the carboxyterminal peptide (CTP) present in CG
but absent in LH. Since the marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus) LHR naturally
lacks exon 10 (LHR type II), we generated two recombinant marmoset gonadotropin
preparations, one consisting of the wild type CG and one of truncated CG lacking 
the CTP (CG (-CTP)). After calibration in a mouse Leydig cell bioassay against
the WHO LH80/522 standard, the ED (50) of the CG preparation on a COS7 cell line 
permanently expressing the marmoset LHR was 4.25 +/- 0.21 IU/L (n = 3).
Stimulation of the COS7 cell line with equipotent concentrations of CG and CG
(-CTP) resulted in significantly different formation of cAMP (two-way ANOVA, p < 
0.001). In particular, cAMP production stimulated by CG (-CTP) was 3 - 4 times
lower compared to CG at the saturating CG concentration (8 IU/L). We conclude,
supplementing one current model of LHR activation, that exon 10 might play a
permissive role in releasing the constraint of the receptor upon hormone binding,
resulting in receptor activation. We speculate that, when exon 10 is lacking, the
CTP can overcome its absence and facilitates the opening of the receptor,
resulting in normal activation.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2004-830409 
PMID: 15578332  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

