

2745. Exp Clin Endocrinol Diabetes. 2004 Nov;112(10):574-9.

The carboxyterminal peptide of chorionic gonadotropin facilitates activation of
the marmoset LH receptor.

Müller T(1), Gromoll J, Simula AP, Norman R, Sandhowe-Klaverkamp R, Simoni M.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Reproductive Medicine of the University of Münster, Münster,
Germany.

Luteinizing hormone (LH) and chorionic gonadotropin (CG) are heterodimeric
glycoprotein hormones acting on the luteinizing hormone receptor (LHR). In the
LHR, which is genomically encoded by eleven exons, exon 10 encodes for the hinge 
region and its elimination impairs LH action, while CG maintains normal activity.
The two gonadotropins differ in the carboxyterminal peptide (CTP) present in CG
but absent in LH. Since the marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus) LHR naturally
lacks exon 10 (LHR type II), we generated two recombinant marmoset gonadotropin
preparations, one consisting of the wild type CG and one of truncated CG lacking 
the CTP (CG (-CTP)). After calibration in a mouse Leydig cell bioassay against
the WHO LH80/522 standard, the ED (50) of the CG preparation on a COS7 cell line 
permanently expressing the marmoset LHR was 4.25 +/- 0.21 IU/L (n = 3).
Stimulation of the COS7 cell line with equipotent concentrations of CG and CG
(-CTP) resulted in significantly different formation of cAMP (two-way ANOVA, p < 
0.001). In particular, cAMP production stimulated by CG (-CTP) was 3 - 4 times
lower compared to CG at the saturating CG concentration (8 IU/L). We conclude,
supplementing one current model of LHR activation, that exon 10 might play a
permissive role in releasing the constraint of the receptor upon hormone binding,
resulting in receptor activation. We speculate that, when exon 10 is lacking, the
CTP can overcome its absence and facilitates the opening of the receptor,
resulting in normal activation.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2004-830409 
PMID: 15578332  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2746. Brain Res. 2004 Dec 24;1030(1):94-102.

Autologous transplantation of expanded neural precursor cells into the
demyelinated monkey spinal cord.

Oka S(1), Honmou O, Akiyama Y, Sasaki M, Houkin K, Hashi K, Kocsis JD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Sapporo Medical University School of Medicine,
Sapporo, Hokkaido 060-8543, Japan.

The objective of this study was to establish if neural precursor cells could
safely be developed from biopsy of the subventricular zone (SVZ) in the non-human
primate (marmoset), and to determine their myelinating potential after autologous
transplantation into a demyelinated lesion. Small amounts of tissue were safely
collected from the subventricular-subependymal zone of the adult primate brain
under ultrasonography without any neurological deficit. Neural precursor cells
were isolated and expanded in the presence of mitogen in vitro. The dorsal
columns of the adult marmoset spinal cord were demyelinated by X-irradiation and 
intraspinal injections of ethidium bromide in the center of the radiation field. 
Cell suspensions of the neural precursors were microinjected through a
micropipette into the demyelinated lesion site in the spinal cord. Lesions were
histologically examined 3 weeks after transplantation. Light and electron
microscopic examination of plastic embedded sections revealed a significant
number of myelinating profiles in the transplantation zone; no myelination was
observed in control lesions. The myelinated axons had predominantly peripheral
patterns of myelination. These results demonstrate that autologous
transplantation of neural precursor cells in the adult nonhuman primate can
remyelinate demyelinated central nervous system (CNS) axons, thus suggesting the 
potential utility of such an approach in demyelinating lesions in humans.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brainres.2004.09.062 
PMID: 15567341  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

