

2746. Brain Res. 2004 Dec 24;1030(1):94-102.

Autologous transplantation of expanded neural precursor cells into the
demyelinated monkey spinal cord.

Oka S(1), Honmou O, Akiyama Y, Sasaki M, Houkin K, Hashi K, Kocsis JD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Sapporo Medical University School of Medicine,
Sapporo, Hokkaido 060-8543, Japan.

The objective of this study was to establish if neural precursor cells could
safely be developed from biopsy of the subventricular zone (SVZ) in the non-human
primate (marmoset), and to determine their myelinating potential after autologous
transplantation into a demyelinated lesion. Small amounts of tissue were safely
collected from the subventricular-subependymal zone of the adult primate brain
under ultrasonography without any neurological deficit. Neural precursor cells
were isolated and expanded in the presence of mitogen in vitro. The dorsal
columns of the adult marmoset spinal cord were demyelinated by X-irradiation and 
intraspinal injections of ethidium bromide in the center of the radiation field. 
Cell suspensions of the neural precursors were microinjected through a
micropipette into the demyelinated lesion site in the spinal cord. Lesions were
histologically examined 3 weeks after transplantation. Light and electron
microscopic examination of plastic embedded sections revealed a significant
number of myelinating profiles in the transplantation zone; no myelination was
observed in control lesions. The myelinated axons had predominantly peripheral
patterns of myelination. These results demonstrate that autologous
transplantation of neural precursor cells in the adult nonhuman primate can
remyelinate demyelinated central nervous system (CNS) axons, thus suggesting the 
potential utility of such an approach in demyelinating lesions in humans.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brainres.2004.09.062 
PMID: 15567341  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2747. J Appl Toxicol. 2004 Nov-Dec;24(6):475-83.

Low levels of sarin affect the EEG in marmoset monkeys: a pilot study.

van Helden HP(1), Vanwersch RA, Kuijpers WC, Trap HC, Philippens IH, Benschop HP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Countermeasures. TNO Prins Maurits Laboratory, PO Box
45, 2280 AA Rijswijk, The Netherlands. helden@pml.tno.nl

The main purpose of this pilot study was to estimate the lowest observable
adverse effect level (LOAEL) for the electroencephalogram (EEG) upon long-term,
low-level exposure of vehicle-pretreated and pyridostigmine-pretreated marmoset
monkeys to sarin vapour. This is the C.t value (t=5 h) of exposure at which the
EEG becomes significantly different from that resulting from air exposure of the 
same animals. The LOAELs for effects on the EEG in vehicle- and
pyridostigmine-pretreated marmosets appeared to be 0.2 and 0.1 mg min m(-3),
respectively. Comparatively, the latter LOAEL values are at least an order of
magnitude lower than the previously established LOAEL for miosis and only 2-5
times higher than the lowest observable effect level (LOEL) of bound sarin in
blood. The second aim of the study was to analyse the EEG of the same marmosets
again during a 5-h exposure to air 1 year after exposure to sarin vapour. All the
marmosets still demonstrated significant (P <0.05) EEG differences. In most
vehicle-pretreated marmosets the energy (microV2) per EEG band was higher than
that observed 1 year earlier, which might indicate that neurons had become more
sensitive to excitation. This phenomenon was less pronounced in
pyridostigmine-pretreated animals. Visual examination of the EEG records revealed
clear bursts of alpha frequencies (ca. 9 Hz), resembling sleep-spindles, that
were present more frequently in both groups of exposed marmosets than in naive
animals. These late changes in spindle oscillation might be the result of changes
in the cholinergic system due to exposure to sarin vapour 1 year previously. In
conclusion, EEG abnormalities persisting for more than 1 year may occur in humans
during long-term (5 h) exposure to subclinical levels of sarin that are not
detectable by the currently fielded alarm systems.

DOI: 10.1002/jat.1001 
PMID: 15558834  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

