

2756. J Zoo Wildl Med. 2004 Sep;35(3):387-90.

Serologic survey in a colony of captive common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus)
after infection with herpes simplex type 1-like virus.

Hatt JM(1), Grest P, Posthaus H, Bossart W.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Zoo Animals and Exotic Pets, University of Zurich, 8057 Zurich,
Switzerland.

An outbreak of herpesvirus caused the death of four of five common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus) in a private colony. Gross lesions included acute ulcerative
gingivitis, glossitis, and enlarged mandibular lymph nodes. Histologically, all
fatal cases showed meningoencephalitis and eosinophilia with intranuclear
inclusion bodies in neurons and glial cells. A herpes simplex-like virus was
cultured from the brain and was identified as herpes simplex type 1 virus or a
closely related virus by immunofluorescence. Serologic testing (complement
fixation test) indicated that the surviving adult female was serologically
positive for more than 4 yr and that the offspring she produced was seronegative.
The most likely source of the outbreak was the owner who mouth fed hand-raised
offspring.

DOI: 10.1638/03-041 
PMID: 15526895  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2757. J Endocrinol. 2004 Oct;183(1):1-17.

Effects of GnRH antagonist treatment on follicular development and angiogenesis
in the primate ovary.

Taylor PD(1), Hillier SG, Fraser HM.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council Human Reproductive Sciences Unit, 49 Little France
Crescent, Edinburgh EH16 4SB, UK.

Angiogenesis is required for normal follicular development but the role of
gonadotrophins in the control of follicular angiogenesis remains to be
elucidated. This study investigated the effects of treatment with GnRH antagonist
in vivo on follicular development and angiogenesis in the marmoset. GnRH
antagonist was administered on either follicular day 0 or day 5 of the 10-day
follicular phase with ovaries collected on day 10. Ovaries from control marmosets
were studied at day 5 (mid follicular phase) and day 10 (periovulatory period).
Ovaries were fixed, serial sectioned and subjected to morphological analysis and 
immunocytochemistry to determine cell proliferation and follicular endothelial
cell area and in situ hybridization to assess changes in expression of vascular
endothelial growth factor (VEGF). Treatment with GnRH antagonist from day 0-10
resulted in an absence of dominant preovulatory follicles seen in controls. In
the remaining tertiary follicles granulosa, theca and endothelial cell
proliferation was reduced, resulting in a minor reduction in vascular density.
However, VEGF mRNA expression was unaffected by treatment. Treatment from day
5-10 did not prevent development of ovulatory size follicles, but they were
atretic and lacked VEGF mRNA. These results suggest that while VEGF expression in
the preovulatory follicle is under gonadotrophic control it is not dependent on
normal gonadotrophin secretion in tertiary follicles, indicating that there are
other paracrine factors regulating VEGF expression in the developing ovarian
follicle.

DOI: 10.1677/joe.1.05685 
PMID: 15525569  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

