

2757. J Endocrinol. 2004 Oct;183(1):1-17.

Effects of GnRH antagonist treatment on follicular development and angiogenesis
in the primate ovary.

Taylor PD(1), Hillier SG, Fraser HM.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council Human Reproductive Sciences Unit, 49 Little France
Crescent, Edinburgh EH16 4SB, UK.

Angiogenesis is required for normal follicular development but the role of
gonadotrophins in the control of follicular angiogenesis remains to be
elucidated. This study investigated the effects of treatment with GnRH antagonist
in vivo on follicular development and angiogenesis in the marmoset. GnRH
antagonist was administered on either follicular day 0 or day 5 of the 10-day
follicular phase with ovaries collected on day 10. Ovaries from control marmosets
were studied at day 5 (mid follicular phase) and day 10 (periovulatory period).
Ovaries were fixed, serial sectioned and subjected to morphological analysis and 
immunocytochemistry to determine cell proliferation and follicular endothelial
cell area and in situ hybridization to assess changes in expression of vascular
endothelial growth factor (VEGF). Treatment with GnRH antagonist from day 0-10
resulted in an absence of dominant preovulatory follicles seen in controls. In
the remaining tertiary follicles granulosa, theca and endothelial cell
proliferation was reduced, resulting in a minor reduction in vascular density.
However, VEGF mRNA expression was unaffected by treatment. Treatment from day
5-10 did not prevent development of ovulatory size follicles, but they were
atretic and lacked VEGF mRNA. These results suggest that while VEGF expression in
the preovulatory follicle is under gonadotrophic control it is not dependent on
normal gonadotrophin secretion in tertiary follicles, indicating that there are
other paracrine factors regulating VEGF expression in the developing ovarian
follicle.

DOI: 10.1677/joe.1.05685 
PMID: 15525569  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2758. Eur J Neurosci. 2004 Nov;20(9):2479-82.

Regenerating corticospinal fibers in the Marmoset (Callitrix jacchus) after
spinal cord lesion and treatment with the anti-Nogo-A antibody IN-1.

Fouad K(1), Klusman I, Schwab ME.

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Rehabilitation Medicine, University of Alberta, Edmonton, T6G 2G4, 
Canada. karim.fouad@ualberta.ca

Neutralizing the myelin-associated growth inhibitor Nogo-A in adult spinal
cord-injured rats can promote regeneration of injured and compensatory sprouting 
of uninjured axons. Nogo-A is present in humans, making its neutralization a
possible novel treatment option for paraplegic patients. In this study we
examined the effects of an extensively used anti-Nogo-A antibody (mAb IN-1) on
the regenerative capabilities of lesioned corticospinal tract (CST) axons in a
primate, the Marmoset monkey. Unilateral thoracic lesions of the CST were
performed in six adult Marmosets, followed by the application of mAb IN-1 into
the cerebrospinal fluid circulation by a graft of hybridoma cells. A unilateral
injection of biotin dextran amine into the motor cortex was performed to analyse 
sprouting and regeneration of the lesioned axons. In the control antibody-treated
animal CST fibers stopped rostral to the lesion site and often showed retraction 
bulbs. In contrast, in four out of five mAb IN-1-treated animals fine labeled
neurites had grown into, through and around the lesion site. Thus, this study
provides first anatomical evidence that in primates, the neutralization of the
myelin-associated inhibitor Nogo-A results in increased regenerative sprouting
and growth of lesioned spinal cord axons.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2004.03716.x 
PMID: 15525289  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

