

2758. Eur J Neurosci. 2004 Nov;20(9):2479-82.

Regenerating corticospinal fibers in the Marmoset (Callitrix jacchus) after
spinal cord lesion and treatment with the anti-Nogo-A antibody IN-1.

Fouad K(1), Klusman I, Schwab ME.

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Rehabilitation Medicine, University of Alberta, Edmonton, T6G 2G4, 
Canada. karim.fouad@ualberta.ca

Neutralizing the myelin-associated growth inhibitor Nogo-A in adult spinal
cord-injured rats can promote regeneration of injured and compensatory sprouting 
of uninjured axons. Nogo-A is present in humans, making its neutralization a
possible novel treatment option for paraplegic patients. In this study we
examined the effects of an extensively used anti-Nogo-A antibody (mAb IN-1) on
the regenerative capabilities of lesioned corticospinal tract (CST) axons in a
primate, the Marmoset monkey. Unilateral thoracic lesions of the CST were
performed in six adult Marmosets, followed by the application of mAb IN-1 into
the cerebrospinal fluid circulation by a graft of hybridoma cells. A unilateral
injection of biotin dextran amine into the motor cortex was performed to analyse 
sprouting and regeneration of the lesioned axons. In the control antibody-treated
animal CST fibers stopped rostral to the lesion site and often showed retraction 
bulbs. In contrast, in four out of five mAb IN-1-treated animals fine labeled
neurites had grown into, through and around the lesion site. Thus, this study
provides first anatomical evidence that in primates, the neutralization of the
myelin-associated inhibitor Nogo-A results in increased regenerative sprouting
and growth of lesioned spinal cord axons.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2004.03716.x 
PMID: 15525289  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2759. Exp Brain Res. 2005 Mar;162(1):100-8. Epub 2004 Oct 23.

Single-unit responses to kinetic stimuli in New World monkey area V2:
physiological characteristics of cue-invariant neurones.

Lui LL(1), Bourne JA, Rosa MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Monash University, 3800 Clayton, VIC, Australia.

In order to investigate the neural processes underlying figure-ground segregation
on the basis of motion, we studied the responses of neurones in the second visual
area (V2) of marmoset monkeys to stimuli that moved against dynamic textured
backgrounds. The stimuli were either "solid" bars, which were uniformly darker or
lighter than the background's average, or kinetic ("camouflaged") bars, formed by
textural elements that matched the spatial and temporal modulation of the
background. Camouflaged bars were rendered visible only by the coherent motion of
their textural elements. Using solid bars, we subdivided the population of
marmoset V2 neurones into motion-selective (uni- and bi-directional units, 73.3% 
of the sample) and weakly-biased (26.7%) subpopulations. The motion selective
subpopulation was further subdivided into cue-invariant neurones (units which
demonstrated a similar selectivity for the direction of motion of the solid and
camouflaged bars) and non-cue-invariant neurones (units which showed selectivity 
to the direction of motion of solid bars, but had weak or pandirectional
responses to camouflaged bars). Cells with cue-invariant responses to these
stimuli were as common in V2 as in the primary visual area (V1; approximately 40%
of the population). In V2, neurones with cue-invariant and non-cue-invariant
motion selectivity formed distinct populations in terms of classical response
properties: cue-invariant neurones were characterized by a sharp axis of motion
selectivity and extensive length summation, while the majority of
non-cue-invariant neurones had broader motion selectivity and were end-stopped.
In the light of previous studies, these different constellations of classical
response properties suggest a correlation with more traditionally recognized
categories of V2 units and modular compartments. The responses of V2 cells to
kinetic stimuli were slightly delayed relative to their responses to
luminance-defined stimuli.

DOI: 10.1007/s00221-004-2113-9 
PMID: 15517211  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

