

2759. Exp Brain Res. 2005 Mar;162(1):100-8. Epub 2004 Oct 23.

Single-unit responses to kinetic stimuli in New World monkey area V2:
physiological characteristics of cue-invariant neurones.

Lui LL(1), Bourne JA, Rosa MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Monash University, 3800 Clayton, VIC, Australia.

In order to investigate the neural processes underlying figure-ground segregation
on the basis of motion, we studied the responses of neurones in the second visual
area (V2) of marmoset monkeys to stimuli that moved against dynamic textured
backgrounds. The stimuli were either "solid" bars, which were uniformly darker or
lighter than the background's average, or kinetic ("camouflaged") bars, formed by
textural elements that matched the spatial and temporal modulation of the
background. Camouflaged bars were rendered visible only by the coherent motion of
their textural elements. Using solid bars, we subdivided the population of
marmoset V2 neurones into motion-selective (uni- and bi-directional units, 73.3% 
of the sample) and weakly-biased (26.7%) subpopulations. The motion selective
subpopulation was further subdivided into cue-invariant neurones (units which
demonstrated a similar selectivity for the direction of motion of the solid and
camouflaged bars) and non-cue-invariant neurones (units which showed selectivity 
to the direction of motion of solid bars, but had weak or pandirectional
responses to camouflaged bars). Cells with cue-invariant responses to these
stimuli were as common in V2 as in the primary visual area (V1; approximately 40%
of the population). In V2, neurones with cue-invariant and non-cue-invariant
motion selectivity formed distinct populations in terms of classical response
properties: cue-invariant neurones were characterized by a sharp axis of motion
selectivity and extensive length summation, while the majority of
non-cue-invariant neurones had broader motion selectivity and were end-stopped.
In the light of previous studies, these different constellations of classical
response properties suggest a correlation with more traditionally recognized
categories of V2 units and modular compartments. The responses of V2 cells to
kinetic stimuli were slightly delayed relative to their responses to
luminance-defined stimuli.

DOI: 10.1007/s00221-004-2113-9 
PMID: 15517211  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2760. Laterality. 2002;7(2):145-62.

Leading-limb preferences in marmosets (Callithrix jacchus): walking, leaping and 
landing.

Hook MA(1), Rogers LJ.

Author information: 
(1)University of New England, Armidale, NSW, Australia. mhook@mdanderson.org

The leading-limb preferences of 17 common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) when
they initiated and terminated locomotion were determined from video recordings of
the subjects walking on, leaping off, and landing on a plexiglas platform. In a
majority of sequences, 11 of 17 subjects landed with the right hand and foot
contacting the plexiglas substrate before the left hand and foot. Of the 17
subjects, 8 initiated leaping with the right side of the body, whereas only 3
subjects significantly preferred to initiate leaping with the left hand and foot.
Leading-limb preferences displayed during landing were positively correlated with
those displayed for leaping and walking, although only two subjects displayed
significant leading-limb preferences when walking. By contrast, hand preferences 
for initiating and terminating locomotion were not related to hand preferences
for food holding; 16 of 17 marmosets displayed strong and significant hand
preferences for food holding, even though many did not show leading-limb
preferences for walking, leaping, or landing. These data seem to suggest that the
right arm is stronger in marmosets. The right arm is used initially to decelerate
the body and absorb the impact of contact with the landing substrate. The
tendency for the right arm to be stronger is balanced by a tendency for the left 
leg to be stronger (providing the force needed for leaping).

DOI: 10.1080/13576500143000177 
PMID: 15513194 

