

2764. Chromosome Res. 2004;12(7):691-701.

Chromosome painting comparison of Leontopithecus chrysomelas (Callitrichine,
Platyrrhini) with man and its phylogenetic position.

Gerbault-Serreau M(1), Bonnet-Garnier A, Richard F, Dutrillaux B.

Author information: 
(1)FRE 2584 CNRS, Institut Curie, Section Recherche, 26 rue d'Ulm, 75248 Paris
Cedex 05, France.

Using human probes of whole chromosomes, the homoeologies between human and
Leontopithecus chrysomelas (Platyrrhini) karyotypes were established.
Thirty-three conserved segments were observed between the two species.
Intrachromosomal rearrangements between the two species were identified using
hybridization of chromosome arm probes of human chromosomes 1 and 3. We also used
chromosomal data to investigate phylogenetic relationships of Callitrichines.
These data were encoded using Cebus capucinus , a species which kept fairly
ancestral chromosomes, as reference. Two equi-parsimonious trees, including
reversion or convergence events, were obtained. The monophyly of Callitrichines
is confirmed. They share nine chromosomal rearrangements at least. The
Cebuella-Callithrix group forms a clade sharing five rearrangements at least.
According to the tree considered, the Tamarins, Leontopithecus and Saguinus share
two chromosomal rearrangements restricted to these two taxa or none. Callimico
accumulated seven chromosomal rearrangements unshared with other taxa, at least. 
To avoid convergence and reversion events, we propose the hypothesis of a network
(or populational) evolution. Six chromosomal rearrangements would have occurred
during the period of this network evolution. Finally, the karyotype of the last
common ancestor to all Callitrichines has been reconstructed. It possessed 48
chromosomes.

DOI: 10.1023/B:CHRO.0000045754.43803.db 
PMID: 15505404  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2765. Res Microbiol. 2004 Nov;155(9):731-40.

Antiproliferative activity of Actinobacillus (Haemophilus) actinomycetemcomitans 
and Fusobacterium nucleatum in peripheral blood mononuclear cells.

do Vale CH(1), de Oliveira Fraga LA, Costa AS, Tavares CA, Martins-Filho OA, de
Macedo Farias L, Roque de Carvalho MA.

Author information: 
(1)Núcleo de Pesquisa em Imunologia, Faculdade de Ciências da Saúde-FACS,
Universidade Vale do Rio Doce-UNIVALE, Gov. Valadares, MG, Brazil.

Several studies indicate Actinobacillus (Haemophilus) actinomycetemcomitans and
Fusobacterium nucleatum as etiologic agents of periodontal disease.
Immunosuppressive factors produced by microorganisms probably contribute to the
initiation and evolution of this disease. This study evaluated the
antiproliferative activity of ammonium precipitate fractions of A. (H.)
actinomycetemcomitans and F. nucleatum isolates from humans and marmosets both
with and without periodontal disease. All A. (H.) actinomycetemcomitans and most 
F. nucleatum strains inhibited PBMC proliferation in a dose-dependent manner. The
degree of cell proliferative inhibition of each bacterial species differed among 
the strains and was independent of host clinical status. The in vitro inhibition 
of stimulated lymphocyte proliferation induced by different A. (H.)
actinomycetemcomitans and F. nucleatum isolates demonstrated the importance of
this phenomenon in bacterial virulence, playing a possible suppressor role in
host defense mechanisms in vivo. Moreover, our findings pointed out a marked
difference between A. (H.) actinomycetemcomitans and F. nucleatum cytoplasmic
extracts in their antiproliferative activity, regarding the antigen concentration
required for maximum inhibition and their vulnerability to heating and
proteolytic treatment.

DOI: 10.1016/j.resmic.2004.05.008 
PMID: 15501650  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

