

2765. Res Microbiol. 2004 Nov;155(9):731-40.

Antiproliferative activity of Actinobacillus (Haemophilus) actinomycetemcomitans 
and Fusobacterium nucleatum in peripheral blood mononuclear cells.

do Vale CH(1), de Oliveira Fraga LA, Costa AS, Tavares CA, Martins-Filho OA, de
Macedo Farias L, Roque de Carvalho MA.

Author information: 
(1)Núcleo de Pesquisa em Imunologia, Faculdade de Ciências da Saúde-FACS,
Universidade Vale do Rio Doce-UNIVALE, Gov. Valadares, MG, Brazil.

Several studies indicate Actinobacillus (Haemophilus) actinomycetemcomitans and
Fusobacterium nucleatum as etiologic agents of periodontal disease.
Immunosuppressive factors produced by microorganisms probably contribute to the
initiation and evolution of this disease. This study evaluated the
antiproliferative activity of ammonium precipitate fractions of A. (H.)
actinomycetemcomitans and F. nucleatum isolates from humans and marmosets both
with and without periodontal disease. All A. (H.) actinomycetemcomitans and most 
F. nucleatum strains inhibited PBMC proliferation in a dose-dependent manner. The
degree of cell proliferative inhibition of each bacterial species differed among 
the strains and was independent of host clinical status. The in vitro inhibition 
of stimulated lymphocyte proliferation induced by different A. (H.)
actinomycetemcomitans and F. nucleatum isolates demonstrated the importance of
this phenomenon in bacterial virulence, playing a possible suppressor role in
host defense mechanisms in vivo. Moreover, our findings pointed out a marked
difference between A. (H.) actinomycetemcomitans and F. nucleatum cytoplasmic
extracts in their antiproliferative activity, regarding the antigen concentration
required for maximum inhibition and their vulnerability to heating and
proteolytic treatment.

DOI: 10.1016/j.resmic.2004.05.008 
PMID: 15501650  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2766. Mov Disord. 2005 Mar;20(3):306-14.

Multiple small doses of levodopa plus entacapone produce continuous dopaminergic 
stimulation and reduce dyskinesia induction in MPTP-treated drug-naive primates.

Smith LA(1), Jackson MJ, Al-Barghouthy G, Rose S, Kuoppamaki M, Olanow W, Jenner 
P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Diseases Research Centre, GKT School of Biomedical Sciences,
King's College, London, United Kingdom.

Long-acting dopamine agonist drugs induce a lower incidence of dyskinesia in
MPTP-treated primates and patients with Parkinson's disease compared to pulsatile
treatment with levodopa, supporting the concept of continuous dopaminergic
stimulation as a means of dyskinesia avoidance. We examined the effects of L-dopa
administered with or without the COMT inhibitor entacapone on dyskinesia
induction in previously untreated MPTP-treated common marmosets. Administration
of L-dopa (12.5 mg/kg p.o.) plus carbidopa twice daily produced fluctuating
improvement in motor behavior coupled with dyskinesia. Coadministration with
entacapone produced similar patterns of motor improvement and dyskinesia that
were not different from that produced by L-dopa alone. Treatment with L-dopa
(6.25 mg/kg p.o.) plus carbidopa four times daily reversed motor disability and
induced dyskinesia in a manner that was not different from the twice-daily
treatment regimens. However, coadministration with entacapone produced more
continuous improvement in locomotor activity with less dyskinesia than animals
treated with L-dopa four times daily alone. These data support the notion that
pulsatile stimulation contributes to the development of dyskinesia and suggests
that more frequent dosing of L-dopa plus entacapone may be a useful treatment
strategy for patients in the early stages of Parkinson's disease.
