

2766. Mov Disord. 2005 Mar;20(3):306-14.

Multiple small doses of levodopa plus entacapone produce continuous dopaminergic 
stimulation and reduce dyskinesia induction in MPTP-treated drug-naive primates.

Smith LA(1), Jackson MJ, Al-Barghouthy G, Rose S, Kuoppamaki M, Olanow W, Jenner 
P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Diseases Research Centre, GKT School of Biomedical Sciences,
King's College, London, United Kingdom.

Long-acting dopamine agonist drugs induce a lower incidence of dyskinesia in
MPTP-treated primates and patients with Parkinson's disease compared to pulsatile
treatment with levodopa, supporting the concept of continuous dopaminergic
stimulation as a means of dyskinesia avoidance. We examined the effects of L-dopa
administered with or without the COMT inhibitor entacapone on dyskinesia
induction in previously untreated MPTP-treated common marmosets. Administration
of L-dopa (12.5 mg/kg p.o.) plus carbidopa twice daily produced fluctuating
improvement in motor behavior coupled with dyskinesia. Coadministration with
entacapone produced similar patterns of motor improvement and dyskinesia that
were not different from that produced by L-dopa alone. Treatment with L-dopa
(6.25 mg/kg p.o.) plus carbidopa four times daily reversed motor disability and
induced dyskinesia in a manner that was not different from the twice-daily
treatment regimens. However, coadministration with entacapone produced more
continuous improvement in locomotor activity with less dyskinesia than animals
treated with L-dopa four times daily alone. These data support the notion that
pulsatile stimulation contributes to the development of dyskinesia and suggests
that more frequent dosing of L-dopa plus entacapone may be a useful treatment
strategy for patients in the early stages of Parkinson's disease.

2004 Movement Disorder Society.

DOI: 10.1002/mds.20317 
PMID: 15490461  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2767. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2005 Jan;90(1):335-9. Epub 2004 Oct 13.

Endocrine changes in full-term pregnancies and pregnancy loss due to energy
restriction in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Tardif SD(1), Ziegler TE, Power M, Layne DG.

Author information: 
(1)Southwest National Primate Research Center, P.O. Box 760549, San Antonio,
Texas 78245-0549, USA. stardif@icarus.sfbr.org

Common marmosets, a New World primate, respond to a modest energy restriction
with early termination of the pregnancy. Within female marmosets, comparisons (n 
= 6) between a normal, term pregnancy and a restriction-induced aborted pregnancy
were used to establish cortisol, free estradiol, and chorionic gonadotropin (CG) 
as urinary markers of placental and fetal function under these two conditions.
Abortions occurred 11-47 d after a 25% energy reduction during midpregnancy for
all females. Cortisol concentrations were significantly lower in the last 2 wk
for the restricted pregnancy than for matched samples in the normal term
pregnancy. Both estradiol and estrone were examined in free and conjugated forms.
Only free estradiol showed a significant reduction in mean concentrations during 
midpregnancy for the restricted females compared with their normal, term
pregnancies. Mean CG levels from each female served as an independent marker of
placental differentiation and function. CG levels were significantly lower during
the 2 wk before abortion compared with matched days from a normal, term
pregnancy. These data provide evidence that estradiol and cortisol are useful
markers of placental and fetal viability in the common marmoset, and their
reduced concentration following energy restriction suggests that restriction is
not acting as a classical stressor by increasing cortisol and, subsequently,
estradiol concentration.

DOI: 10.1210/jc.2004-1064 
PMID: 15483089  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

