

2770. Am J Phys Anthropol. 2005 Jan;126(1):97-110.

Fetal and infant head circumference sexual dimorphism in primates.

Joffe TH(1), Tarantal AF, Rice K, Leland M, Oerke AK, Rodeck C, Geary M,
Hindmarsh P, Wells JC, Aiello LC.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Child Health, MRC Childhood Nutrition Research Center, University
College London, London WC1N 1EH, UK. tracey.joffe@tufts.edu
<tracey.joffe@tufts.edu>

Studies have shown that after controlling for the effects of body size on brain
size, the brains of adult humans, rhesus monkeys, and chimpanzees differ in
relative size, where males have a greater volume of cerebral tissue than females.
We assess whether head circumference sexual dimorphism is present during early
development by evaluating sex differences in relative head circumference in
living fetuses and infants within the first year of life. Head circumference is
used as a proxy for brain size in the fetus and infant. Femur length is used as a
proxy for body length in the fetus. Ultrasonography was used to obtain fetal
measures, and anthropometry was used to obtain postnatal measures in humans,
rhesus monkeys, baboons, and common marmosets. We show that statistically
significant but low levels of head circumference sexual dimorphism are present in
humans, rhesus monkeys, and baboons in early life. On average, males have head
circumferences about 2% larger than females of comparable femur/body length in
humans, rhesus monkeys, and baboons. No evidence for head circumference sexual
dimorphism in the common marmoset was found. Dimorphism was present across all
body size ranges. We suggest that head circumference sexual dimorphism emerges
largely postnatally and increases throughout maturation, particularly in humans
who reach adult dimorphism values greater than the monkeys. We suggest that brain
dimorphism is not likely to impose an additional energetic burden to the
gestating or lactating mother. Finally, some of the problems with ascribing
functional significance to brain size sexual dimorphism are discussed, and the
energetic implications for brain size sexual dimorphism in infancy are assessed.

(c) 2004 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.20035 
PMID: 15472898  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2771. Anat Rec A Discov Mol Cell Evol Biol. 2004 Nov;281(1):1190-200.

Expression of neuron-specific markers by the vomeronasal neuroepithelium in six
species of primates.

Dennis JC(1), Smith TD, Bhatnagar KP, Bonar CJ, Burrows AM, Morrison EE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, Physiology, and Pharmacology, College of Veterinary
Medicine, Auburn University, Auburn, Alabama 36849, USA.
dennijc@vetmed.auburn.edu

Vomeronasal organ (VNO) morphology varies markedly across primate taxa. Old World
monkeys display no postnatal VNO. Humans and at least some apes retain a
vestigial VNO during postnatal life, whereas the strepsirrhines and New World
Monkeys present a morphologically well-defined VNO that, in many species, is
presumed to function as an olfactory organ. Available microanatomical and
behavioral studies suggest that VNO function in these species does not precisely 
duplicate that described in other mammalian taxa. The questions of which species 
retain a functional VNO and what functions they serve require inquiry along
diverse lines but, to be functional, the vomeronasal epithelium must be neuronal 
and olfactory. We used immunohistochemistry to establish these criteria in six
primate species. We compared the expression of two neuronal markers,
neuron-specific beta-tubulin (BT) and protein gene product 9.5, and olfactory
marker protein (OMP), a marker of mature olfactory sensory neurons, in
paraffin-embedded VNO sections from two strepsirrhine and four haplorhine
species, all of which retain morphologically well-defined VNOs during postnatal
life. The infant Eulemur mongoz, adult Otolemur crassicaudatus, neonatal
Leontopithicus rosalia, and adult Callithrix jacchus express all three proteins
in their well-defined vomeronasal neuroepithelia. The infant Tarsius syrichta
showed some BT and OMP immunoreactivity. We establish that two strepsirrhine
species and at least some New World haplorhines have mature sensory neurons in
the VNO. In contrast, at all ages examined, Saguinus geoffroyi VNO expresses
these markers in only a few cells.

(c) 2004 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ar.a.20124 
PMID: 15470676  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

