

2771. Anat Rec A Discov Mol Cell Evol Biol. 2004 Nov;281(1):1190-200.

Expression of neuron-specific markers by the vomeronasal neuroepithelium in six
species of primates.

Dennis JC(1), Smith TD, Bhatnagar KP, Bonar CJ, Burrows AM, Morrison EE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, Physiology, and Pharmacology, College of Veterinary
Medicine, Auburn University, Auburn, Alabama 36849, USA.
dennijc@vetmed.auburn.edu

Vomeronasal organ (VNO) morphology varies markedly across primate taxa. Old World
monkeys display no postnatal VNO. Humans and at least some apes retain a
vestigial VNO during postnatal life, whereas the strepsirrhines and New World
Monkeys present a morphologically well-defined VNO that, in many species, is
presumed to function as an olfactory organ. Available microanatomical and
behavioral studies suggest that VNO function in these species does not precisely 
duplicate that described in other mammalian taxa. The questions of which species 
retain a functional VNO and what functions they serve require inquiry along
diverse lines but, to be functional, the vomeronasal epithelium must be neuronal 
and olfactory. We used immunohistochemistry to establish these criteria in six
primate species. We compared the expression of two neuronal markers,
neuron-specific beta-tubulin (BT) and protein gene product 9.5, and olfactory
marker protein (OMP), a marker of mature olfactory sensory neurons, in
paraffin-embedded VNO sections from two strepsirrhine and four haplorhine
species, all of which retain morphologically well-defined VNOs during postnatal
life. The infant Eulemur mongoz, adult Otolemur crassicaudatus, neonatal
Leontopithicus rosalia, and adult Callithrix jacchus express all three proteins
in their well-defined vomeronasal neuroepithelia. The infant Tarsius syrichta
showed some BT and OMP immunoreactivity. We establish that two strepsirrhine
species and at least some New World haplorhines have mature sensory neurons in
the VNO. In contrast, at all ages examined, Saguinus geoffroyi VNO expresses
these markers in only a few cells.

(c) 2004 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ar.a.20124 
PMID: 15470676  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2772. Nihon Rinsho. 2004 Sep;62(9):1653-60.

[The pharmacological and rational theory for the drug development of Parkinson's 
disease].

[Article in Japanese]

Nomoto M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Pharmacology and Neurology, Ehime University School of 
Medicine.

The basal ganglia in the brain contains glutamate, dopamine, serotonin,
noradrenaline, CCK, adenosine, opioid, cannabinoid, etc. These agents contribute 
to keep motor control and modulation of the agent may be a cue to the treatment
of movement disorders. D1 or D2 dopamine receptor agonists increase locomotor
activity in MPTP-treated common marmosets which showed decreased locomotor
activity and decreased number of dopamine neurons in the substantia nigra. Using 
this model of parkinsonism, NMDA receptor antag-onists, antimuscarinic receptor
antagonists, 5-HT1A receptor agonists, adenosine receptor antagonists were showed
to reverse the impaired movement of the model animals. The results may contribute
to the development of new drugs for the treatment of Parkinson's disease.


PMID: 15462380  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

