

2773. Braz J Biol. 2004 May;64(2):363-70.

Seasonality of the activity pattern of Callithrix penicillata (Primates,
Callitrichidae) in the cerrado (scrub savanna vegetation).

Vilela SL(1), de Faria DS.

Author information: 
(1)Universidade de Brasília, Instituto de Biologia, Departamento de Ecologia.
C.P. 04631, CEP 70919-970, Brasília, DF, Brazil. sinara.vilela@ibama.gov.br

Two wild groups of Callithrix penicillata, the Black Pincelled Marmoset, were
observed from January to September 1998, in two areas, one an area of dense scrub
savanna vegetation (cerrado) and the other, a semidecidual woodland (cerradão),
both within the boundaries of the Ecological Reserve of IBGE (Brazilian Institute
of Geography and Statistics), in an environmentally protected area, the APA
(Portuguese abbreviation for "environmental protected area")
Gama/Cabeça-de-Veado, Brasília, DF. The behavioral data collected during the
rainy (January 15 to April 15) and dry season (June 1 to September 15) were
compared. Because of the proximity to the Reserve facilities, the group from the 
dense scrub savanna vegetation (CD) was submitted to antropic impacts different
from the group in the semidecidual woodland (CE), which was using as territory an
area that had been suffering from man-made fires every two years as part of a
long-term experimental project on fire impacts. The behavioral data was
quantified by instantaneous cross-section ("scan sampling") every ten minutes
with records of locomotion, rest, foraging for insects, use of exudate, and
feeding. During the whole year, the greatest percentage of time spent by CE and
CD was in foraging for insects, with 44% and 39%, respectively. It was evident
when comparing the data for the two seasons that, for both groups, foraging for
insects was more intense during the dry season, possibly to complement the
shortage of food, and locomotion increased during the rainy season. The greater
the availability and distribution of fruit in the areas, the greater the
locomotion of the groups to obtain these resources. None of the other behavioral 
patterns, including the use of exudates, presented significant differences
between the two seasons. Both groups foraged more frequently during the dry
season and locomoted more during the rainy one.

DOI: 10.1590/s1519-69842004000200023 
PMID: 15462311  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2774. Epilepsia. 2004 Oct;45(10):1240-7.

fMRI of generalized absence status epilepticus in conscious marmoset monkeys
reveals corticothalamic activation.

Tenney JR(1), Marshall PC, King JA, Ferris CF.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Comparative Neuroimaging, Department of Psychiatry, University of
Massachusetts Medical School, Worcester, Massachusetts, USA.
jeffrey.tenney@umassmed.edu

PURPOSE: A nonhuman primate model of generalized absence status epilepticus was
developed for use in functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) experiments to 
elucidate the brain mechanisms underlying this disorder.
METHODS: Adult male marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) were treated with
gamma-butyrolactone (GBL) to induce prolonged absence seizures, and the resulting
spike-wave discharges (SWDs) were analyzed to determine the similarity to the
3-Hz SWDs that characterize the disorder. In addition,
blood-oxygenation-level-dependent (BOLD) fMRI was measured at 4.7 Tesla after
absence seizure induction with GBL.
RESULTS: Electroencephalographic recordings during imaging showed 3-Hz SWDs
typical of human absence seizures. This synchronized EEG pattern started within
15 to 20 min of drug administration and persisted for >60 min. In addition,
pretreatment with the antiepileptic drug, ethosuximide (ESM), blocked the
behavioral and EEG changes caused by GBL. Changes in BOLD signal intensity in the
thalamus and sensorimotor cortex correlated with the onset of 3-Hz SWDs. The
change in BOLD signal intensity was bilateral but heterogeneous, affecting some
brain areas more than others. No significant negative BOLD changes were seen.
CONCLUSIONS: The BOLD fMRI data obtained in this marmoset monkey model of absence
status epilepticus shows activation within the thalamus and cortex.

DOI: 10.1111/j.0013-9580.2004.21504.x 
PMID: 15461678  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

