

2775. Endocrinology. 2005 Jan;146(1):365-74. Epub 2004 Sep 30.

Male marmoset monkeys express an adrenal fetal zone at birth, but not a zona
reticularis in adulthood.

Pattison JC(1), Abbott DH, Saltzman W, Nguyen AD, Henderson G, Jing H, Pryce CR, 
Allen AJ, Conley AJ, Bird IM.

Author information: 
(1)Perinatal Research Laboratories, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison,
Wisconsin 53715, USA.

Neonatal human males produce high levels of dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) and its
sulfo-conjugated form (DS) that decline within a few months of birth, due to
regression of the adrenal fetal zone (FZ). Adult male humans and rhesus monkeys
produce C19 steroids in abundance from the adrenal zona reticularis (ZR). Male
marmoset monkeys produce DS at birth, but unlike humans and rhesus monkeys, do
not produce comparable amounts of DHEA and DS in adulthood. To determine whether 
male marmosets express a functional ZR in adulthood, we examined adult and
neonatal male marmosets for the presence of a ZR and FZ, respectively. Exogenous 
ACTH failed to stimulate DHEA or DS in adults, and dexamethasone treatment failed
to suppress DHEA and DS, although cortisol levels changed as expected. In
steroidogenic tissues, the key proteins necessary to synthesize C19 steroids from
pregnenolone are P450c17, 3beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (3beta-HSD),
nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (reduced) oxido-reductase cytochrome 
P450 (reductase), and cytochromeb5 (cytb5). Adult adrenal cross sections showed
P450c17 and reductase protein expression throughout the cortex but showed no
expected decrease in 3beta-HSD and increase in cytb5 in the innermost region.
Western analysis confirmed these data, demonstrating comparable P450c17
expression to rhesus monkeys, but not cytb5. HPLC analysis revealed similar
17alpha-hydroxylase action on pregnenolone for adult marmoset and rhesus adrenal 
microsomes but greatly diminished 17,20-lyase activity in marmosets. Neonatal
marmoset adrenals exhibited staining indicative of a putative FZ (with P450c17,
reduced 3beta-HSD and increased cytb5). We conclude that neonatal marmosets
exhibit a C19 steroid-secreting FZ similar to humans, but adult males fail to
acquire a functional ZR.

DOI: 10.1210/en.2004-0689 
PMID: 15459122  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2776. Am J Phys Anthropol. 2004 Dec;125(4):343-51.

New technique for studying reaction forces during primate behaviors on vertical
substrates.

Vinyard CJ(1), Schmitt D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Anthropology and Anatomy, Duke University Medical
Center, Durham, North Carolina 27710, USA. cvinyard@neoucom.edu

Recording reaction forces from primates during behaviors on vertical substrates, 
such as leaping, climbing, or biting trees, typically requires the design and
construction of customized recording devices or mounting commercially available
force platforms in a vertical position. The technical difficulties imposed by
either option have hindered in vivo research on the kinetics of primate behaviors
on vertical substrates. We describe a simple, inexpensive apparatus for recording
forces from primate behaviors on vertical substrates. The apparatus includes an
instrumented beam fastened directly to a horizontal force platform and a
surrounding vertical substrate that does not contact the instrumented beam or
platform. The contact piece at the end of the instrumented beam is positioned
flush with the noninstrumented vertical substrate, and reaction forces elicited
on this instrumented section are directed to the force platform. Because most of 
the vertical substrate is not instrumented, we can isolate and record forces from
a single limb or jaw during a behavior. Biewener and Full ([1992] Biomechanics
Structures and Positions: A Practical Approach; New York: Oxford University
press, p. 45-73) gave seven criteria to consider when designing a customized
force-recording device. Where appropriate, we tested if our apparatus met their
criteria. The apparatus accurately records forces in three orthogonal directions,
has low cross-talk, maintains a high frequency response, exhibits a linear
response up to at least 200 Newtons, and displays a uniform response to a given
force across the instrumented contact piece. Our design does not easily
facilitate the identification of the point of force application. Therefore, joint
moments cannot be easily calculated. This limitation, however, does not affect
the apparatus's ability to accurately record the magnitude and direction of a
force (as shown by other tests). We developed this apparatus to measure jaw
forces during tree gouging in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus), but the
general design can be readily modified to study a variety of primate behaviors on
vertical substrates.
