

2778. Nucleic Acids Res. 2004 Sep 15;32(16):e130.

Improving specificity of DNA hybridization-based methods.

Chalaya T(1), Gogvadze E, Buzdin A, Kovalskaya E, Sverdlov ED.

Author information: 
(1)Shemyakin-Ovchinnikov Institute of Bioorganic Chemistry, Moscow 117871,
Russia.

Methods based on DNA reassociation in solution with the subsequent PCR
amplification of certain hybrid molecules, such as coincidence cloning and
subtractive hybridization, all suffer from a common imperfection:
cross-hybridization between various types of paralogous repetitive DNA fragments.
Although the situation can be slightly improved by the addition of
repeat-specific competitor DNA into the hybridization mixture, the
cross-hybridization outcome is a significant number of background chimeric clones
in resulting DNA libraries. In order to overcome this challenge, we developed a
technique called mispaired DNA rejection (MDR), which utilizes a treatment of
resulting reassociated DNA with mismatch-specific nucleases. We examined the MDR 
efficiency using cross-hybridization of complex, whole genomic mixtures derived
from human and chimpanzee genomes, digested with frequent-cutter restriction
enzyme. We show here that both single-stranded DNA-specific and mismatched
double-stranded DNA-specific nucleases can be used for MDR separately or in
combination, reducing the background level from 60 to 4% or lower. The technique 
presented here is of universal usefulness and can be applied to both cDNA and
genomic DNA subtractions of very complex DNA mixtures. MDR is also useful for the
genome-wide recovery of highly conserved DNA sequences, as we demonstrate by
comparing human and pygmy marmoset genomes.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/gnh125 
PMCID: PMC519126
PMID: 15371554  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2779. Am J Primatol. 2004 Sep;64(1):107-21.

Reproductive output, maternal age, and survivorship in captive common marmoset
females (Callithrix jacchus).

Smucny DA(1), Abbott DH, Mansfield KG, Schultz-Darken NJ, Yamamoto ME, Alencar
AI, Tardif SD.

Author information: 
(1)Southwest National Primate Research Center, San Antonio, Texas 78245-0549,
USA.

Common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) demonstrate significant variation in
reproductive output on both a yearly and lifetime basis in comparison to other
anthropoid primates. We explore the factors that may be most important in
determining reproductive variation in captive common marmosets. Studies have
found that maternal age, maternal condition, and dam survivorship are related to 
reproductive output; however, these reports are not in agreement and are far from
conclusive. With the use of a large, multicolony, demographic database pooling
data across five marmoset colonies, we examined litter information for 1,649
litters, and reproductive summaries for 400 dams to assess 1) how reproductive
output variation (total production, total weaned production) is determined by
litter size, interbirth interval (IBI), age at first birth, and dam survival age;
2) the relationship between maternal age and reproductive output variables; and
3) relationship between the reproductive output variables and survival. We used
stepwise regression procedures to describe the amount of variation in lifetime
reproductive output among dams, and found that mean litter size accounted for 18%
of the variance in total production, survival age accounted for 10.6%, age at
first birth accounted for 8.8%, and mean IBI accounted for 5%. For total
(nonzero) weaned production, survival age accounted for 7.6% of variance, age at 
first birth accounted for 7.2%, mean IBI accounted for 2%, and mean litter size
accounted for 1.6%. We identified significant effects (P<0.05) of maternal age on
litter size and IBI length, but no effect of dam age on weaned litter size. Cox
proportional hazards regression analyses revealed significant effects (P<0.01) of
number of litters, age at first birth, and site on dam survivorship. Dams that
produced more litters showed higher survivorship. Age at first birth showed a
positive relationship with dam survivorship, i.e., dams that delayed first
reproduction had higher survival. Our findings about reproductive variation in
marmosets may have practical applications for the management of marmoset breeding
colonies.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20065 
PMID: 15356862  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

