

2779. Am J Primatol. 2004 Sep;64(1):107-21.

Reproductive output, maternal age, and survivorship in captive common marmoset
females (Callithrix jacchus).

Smucny DA(1), Abbott DH, Mansfield KG, Schultz-Darken NJ, Yamamoto ME, Alencar
AI, Tardif SD.

Author information: 
(1)Southwest National Primate Research Center, San Antonio, Texas 78245-0549,
USA.

Common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) demonstrate significant variation in
reproductive output on both a yearly and lifetime basis in comparison to other
anthropoid primates. We explore the factors that may be most important in
determining reproductive variation in captive common marmosets. Studies have
found that maternal age, maternal condition, and dam survivorship are related to 
reproductive output; however, these reports are not in agreement and are far from
conclusive. With the use of a large, multicolony, demographic database pooling
data across five marmoset colonies, we examined litter information for 1,649
litters, and reproductive summaries for 400 dams to assess 1) how reproductive
output variation (total production, total weaned production) is determined by
litter size, interbirth interval (IBI), age at first birth, and dam survival age;
2) the relationship between maternal age and reproductive output variables; and
3) relationship between the reproductive output variables and survival. We used
stepwise regression procedures to describe the amount of variation in lifetime
reproductive output among dams, and found that mean litter size accounted for 18%
of the variance in total production, survival age accounted for 10.6%, age at
first birth accounted for 8.8%, and mean IBI accounted for 5%. For total
(nonzero) weaned production, survival age accounted for 7.6% of variance, age at 
first birth accounted for 7.2%, mean IBI accounted for 2%, and mean litter size
accounted for 1.6%. We identified significant effects (P<0.05) of maternal age on
litter size and IBI length, but no effect of dam age on weaned litter size. Cox
proportional hazards regression analyses revealed significant effects (P<0.01) of
number of litters, age at first birth, and site on dam survivorship. Dams that
produced more litters showed higher survivorship. Age at first birth showed a
positive relationship with dam survivorship, i.e., dams that delayed first
reproduction had higher survival. Our findings about reproductive variation in
marmosets may have practical applications for the management of marmoset breeding
colonies.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20065 
PMID: 15356862  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2780. Am J Primatol. 2004 Sep;64(1):83-93.

Quantitative data on training new world primates to urinate.

Smith TE(1), McCallister JM, Gordon SJ, Whittikar M.

Author information: 
(1)Biology Department, University College Chester, Chester CB1 4BJ, UK.
tessa.smith@chester.ac.uk

This study assessed the effectiveness of operant conditioning in training three
species of captive callitrichid primates (Leontopithecus rosalia, Callithrix
geoffroyi, and Saguinus imperator) to urinate on demand. There were three goals
to the study: 1) to develop a system for quantitatively assessing positive
reinforcement training; 2) to ascertain whether or not positive reinforcement
techniques can be used to train callitrichid monkeys to urinate on demand, and if
so, how many training sessions are required; and 3) to determine the effect on
urination behavior of the trainer entering the cage to collect a urine sample.
Positive reinforcement with a continuous reinforcement schedule was used to
capture a natural behavior: urination. Training sessions (30 min each) were
conducted at dawn thrice weekly during five consecutive phases: habituation,
control, training (animals were rewarded for urinating), maintenance (animals had
reached a defined training criteria and continued to be rewarded for urinating), 
and collection (animals were rewarded for urinating, and the trainer entered the 
cage to collect the sample). The numbers of 30-min training sessions required to 
train the three monkey species (L. rosalia, C. geoffroyi, and S. imperator) were 
five, six, and eight, respectively. For the three species, the mean number of
urinations per animal was significantly greater during the training, maintenance,
and collection phases compared to the control phase. However, the three species
differed significantly in the manner in which the rates of urination changed
across the five phases. A higher proportion of subjects urinated during the
training, maintenance, and collection phases compared to the control phase.
Latency to first urination varied significantly across the five phases, with
significantly reduced latencies to urinate during the training, maintenance, and 
collection phases compared to the control phase. The entry of the trainer into
the cage to collect the urine sample did not appear to alter urination behavior. 
We demonstrate that operant conditioning techniques, which typically incur
minimal cost, time investment, and disturbance, can be used to increase the
quantity of urine samples collected for physiological analysis, the proportion of
animals that urinate, and the speed of sample collection.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20063 
PMID: 15356860  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

