

2780. Am J Primatol. 2004 Sep;64(1):83-93.

Quantitative data on training new world primates to urinate.

Smith TE(1), McCallister JM, Gordon SJ, Whittikar M.

Author information: 
(1)Biology Department, University College Chester, Chester CB1 4BJ, UK.
tessa.smith@chester.ac.uk

This study assessed the effectiveness of operant conditioning in training three
species of captive callitrichid primates (Leontopithecus rosalia, Callithrix
geoffroyi, and Saguinus imperator) to urinate on demand. There were three goals
to the study: 1) to develop a system for quantitatively assessing positive
reinforcement training; 2) to ascertain whether or not positive reinforcement
techniques can be used to train callitrichid monkeys to urinate on demand, and if
so, how many training sessions are required; and 3) to determine the effect on
urination behavior of the trainer entering the cage to collect a urine sample.
Positive reinforcement with a continuous reinforcement schedule was used to
capture a natural behavior: urination. Training sessions (30 min each) were
conducted at dawn thrice weekly during five consecutive phases: habituation,
control, training (animals were rewarded for urinating), maintenance (animals had
reached a defined training criteria and continued to be rewarded for urinating), 
and collection (animals were rewarded for urinating, and the trainer entered the 
cage to collect the sample). The numbers of 30-min training sessions required to 
train the three monkey species (L. rosalia, C. geoffroyi, and S. imperator) were 
five, six, and eight, respectively. For the three species, the mean number of
urinations per animal was significantly greater during the training, maintenance,
and collection phases compared to the control phase. However, the three species
differed significantly in the manner in which the rates of urination changed
across the five phases. A higher proportion of subjects urinated during the
training, maintenance, and collection phases compared to the control phase.
Latency to first urination varied significantly across the five phases, with
significantly reduced latencies to urinate during the training, maintenance, and 
collection phases compared to the control phase. The entry of the trainer into
the cage to collect the urine sample did not appear to alter urination behavior. 
We demonstrate that operant conditioning techniques, which typically incur
minimal cost, time investment, and disturbance, can be used to increase the
quantity of urine samples collected for physiological analysis, the proportion of
animals that urinate, and the speed of sample collection.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20063 
PMID: 15356860  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2781. Am J Primatol. 2004 Sep;64(1):29-37.

Influence of the mother's reproductive state on the hormonal status of daughters 
in marmosets (Callithrix kuhlii).

Puffer AM(1), Fite JE, French JA, Rukstalis M, Hopkins EC, Patera KJ.

Author information: 
(1)Callitrichid Research Center, Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska
at Omaha, Omaha, Nebraska 68182-0274, USA.

Behavioral and endocrine suppression of reproduction in subordinate females
produces the high reproductive skew that characterizes callitrichid primate
mating systems. Snowdon et al. [American Journal of Primatology 31:11-21, 1993]
reported that the eldest daughters in tamarin families exhibit further
endocrinological suppression immediately following the birth of siblings, and
suggested that dominant females exert greater control over subordinate
endocrinology during this energetically challenging phase of reproduction. We
monitored the endocrine status of five Wied's black tufted-ear marmoset daughters
before and after their mother delivered infants by measuring concentrations of
urinary estradiol (E(2)), pregnanediol glucuronide (PdG), testosterone (T), and
cortisol (CORT). Samples were collected from marmoset daughters 4 weeks prior to 
and 9 weeks following three consecutive sibling-litter births when the daughters 
were prepubertal (M=6.1 months of age), peripubertal (M=11.9 months), and
postpubertal (M=17.6 months). The birth of infants was associated with reduced
ovarian steroid excretion only in the prepubertal daughters. In contrast, ovarian
steroid levels tended to increase in the postpubertal daughters. Urinary E(2) and
T levels in the postpubertal daughters were 73.8% and 37.6% higher, respectively,
in the 3 weeks following the birth of infants, relative to prepartum levels. In
addition, peak urinary PdG concentrations in peri- and postpubertal daughters
were equivalent to luteal phase concentrations in nonpregnant, breeding adult
females, and all of the peri- and postpubertal daughters showed clear ovulatory
cycles. Cortisol excretion did not change in response to the reproductive status 
of the mother, nor did the concentrations change across age. Our data suggest
that marmoset daughters of potential breeding age are not hormonally suppressed
during the mother's peripartum period or her return to fertility. These findings 
provide an additional example of species diversity in the social regulation of
reproduction in callitrichid primates.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20059 
PMCID: PMC2980352
PMID: 15356856  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

