

2781. Am J Primatol. 2004 Sep;64(1):29-37.

Influence of the mother's reproductive state on the hormonal status of daughters 
in marmosets (Callithrix kuhlii).

Puffer AM(1), Fite JE, French JA, Rukstalis M, Hopkins EC, Patera KJ.

Author information: 
(1)Callitrichid Research Center, Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska
at Omaha, Omaha, Nebraska 68182-0274, USA.

Behavioral and endocrine suppression of reproduction in subordinate females
produces the high reproductive skew that characterizes callitrichid primate
mating systems. Snowdon et al. [American Journal of Primatology 31:11-21, 1993]
reported that the eldest daughters in tamarin families exhibit further
endocrinological suppression immediately following the birth of siblings, and
suggested that dominant females exert greater control over subordinate
endocrinology during this energetically challenging phase of reproduction. We
monitored the endocrine status of five Wied's black tufted-ear marmoset daughters
before and after their mother delivered infants by measuring concentrations of
urinary estradiol (E(2)), pregnanediol glucuronide (PdG), testosterone (T), and
cortisol (CORT). Samples were collected from marmoset daughters 4 weeks prior to 
and 9 weeks following three consecutive sibling-litter births when the daughters 
were prepubertal (M=6.1 months of age), peripubertal (M=11.9 months), and
postpubertal (M=17.6 months). The birth of infants was associated with reduced
ovarian steroid excretion only in the prepubertal daughters. In contrast, ovarian
steroid levels tended to increase in the postpubertal daughters. Urinary E(2) and
T levels in the postpubertal daughters were 73.8% and 37.6% higher, respectively,
in the 3 weeks following the birth of infants, relative to prepartum levels. In
addition, peak urinary PdG concentrations in peri- and postpubertal daughters
were equivalent to luteal phase concentrations in nonpregnant, breeding adult
females, and all of the peri- and postpubertal daughters showed clear ovulatory
cycles. Cortisol excretion did not change in response to the reproductive status 
of the mother, nor did the concentrations change across age. Our data suggest
that marmoset daughters of potential breeding age are not hormonally suppressed
during the mother's peripartum period or her return to fertility. These findings 
provide an additional example of species diversity in the social regulation of
reproduction in callitrichid primates.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20059 
PMCID: PMC2980352
PMID: 15356856  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2782. Biol Reprod. 2005 Feb;72(2):293-300. Epub 2004 Sep 8.

Clonal organization of proliferating spermatogonial stem cells in adult males of 
two species of non-human primates, Macaca mulatta and Callithrix jacchus.

Ehmcke J(1), Luetjens CM, Schlatt S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology and Physiology, Center for Research in Reproductive
Physiology, University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
15261, USA.

The present study examines the existence of clonogenic patterns in the
proliferation and differentiation of spermatogonial stem cells in two species of 
non-human primates, the marmoset and the rhesus monkey. We developed a novel
approach to detect proliferating spermatogonial clones in whole mounts of
seminiferous tubules. Dual fluorescence labeling of bromodeoxyuridine and acrosin
in conjunction with confocal microscopy allows the description of the clonogenic 
and spatial arrangement of proliferating spermatogonia at specific stages of the 
seminiferous epithelial cycle. Cross-sections of paraffin-embedded tissue were
labeled by the same approach. For both monkey species we demonstrate the presence
of proliferating spermatogonial clones of variable size at specific stages of the
cycle of the seminiferous epithelium. Detailed analysis of the rhesus monkey
reveals proliferating Apale spermatogonia at stages VII and IX of the cycle of
the seminiferous epithelium, and of proliferating B spermatogonia at stages II,
IV, VI, and XII. Proliferating Apale spermatogonia at stages VII and IX of the
cycle are organized in pairs or quadruplets. B1 spermatogonia appear as
quadruplets or eight-cell clones, and B2 spermatogonia as 8- or 16-cell clones.
We conclude that spermatogenesis in the rhesus monkey is initiated by two
divisions of duplets or quadruplets of Apale spermatogonia: a first division at
stage VII, after which the clones of Apale spermatogonia separate, and a second
division at stage IX, which leads to clones of B1 spermatogonia as well as pairs 
and quadruplets of Apale spermatogonia replenishing the seminiferous epithelium
to maintain the original size of the A spermatogonial population.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod.104.033092 
PMID: 15355878  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

