

2782. Biol Reprod. 2005 Feb;72(2):293-300. Epub 2004 Sep 8.

Clonal organization of proliferating spermatogonial stem cells in adult males of 
two species of non-human primates, Macaca mulatta and Callithrix jacchus.

Ehmcke J(1), Luetjens CM, Schlatt S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology and Physiology, Center for Research in Reproductive
Physiology, University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
15261, USA.

The present study examines the existence of clonogenic patterns in the
proliferation and differentiation of spermatogonial stem cells in two species of 
non-human primates, the marmoset and the rhesus monkey. We developed a novel
approach to detect proliferating spermatogonial clones in whole mounts of
seminiferous tubules. Dual fluorescence labeling of bromodeoxyuridine and acrosin
in conjunction with confocal microscopy allows the description of the clonogenic 
and spatial arrangement of proliferating spermatogonia at specific stages of the 
seminiferous epithelial cycle. Cross-sections of paraffin-embedded tissue were
labeled by the same approach. For both monkey species we demonstrate the presence
of proliferating spermatogonial clones of variable size at specific stages of the
cycle of the seminiferous epithelium. Detailed analysis of the rhesus monkey
reveals proliferating Apale spermatogonia at stages VII and IX of the cycle of
the seminiferous epithelium, and of proliferating B spermatogonia at stages II,
IV, VI, and XII. Proliferating Apale spermatogonia at stages VII and IX of the
cycle are organized in pairs or quadruplets. B1 spermatogonia appear as
quadruplets or eight-cell clones, and B2 spermatogonia as 8- or 16-cell clones.
We conclude that spermatogenesis in the rhesus monkey is initiated by two
divisions of duplets or quadruplets of Apale spermatogonia: a first division at
stage VII, after which the clones of Apale spermatogonia separate, and a second
division at stage IX, which leads to clones of B1 spermatogonia as well as pairs 
and quadruplets of Apale spermatogonia replenishing the seminiferous epithelium
to maintain the original size of the A spermatogonial population.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod.104.033092 
PMID: 15355878  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2783. Exp Hematol. 2004 Sep;32(9):843-51.

Hematopoietic activity of common marmoset CD34 cells isolated by a novel
monoclonal antibody MA24.

Izawa K(1), Tani K, Nakazaki Y, Hibino H, Sugiyama H, Kawasaki A, Sasaki E,
Nishioka C, Ishii H, Soda Y, Yagita H, Tanioka Y, Tojo A, Asano S.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Medical Science, University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan.

OBJECTIVE: We focused on a small New World monkey, the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus), to establish a nonhuman primate model of the treatment of
hematological disorders. In this study, we developed the first monoclonal
antibodies (MAbs) against marmoset CD34 and tested the in vitro and in vivo
hemopoietic activity of cell populations isolated using one of these MAbs.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Marmoset cDNA encoding a human CD34 homologue was cloned
from bone marrow (BM)-derived RNA using reverse transcription polymerase chain
reaction and rapid amplification of cDNA ends. The amino acid sequence of the
marmoset CD34 had 81% homology with the human sequence. Five mouse MAbs were
raised against marmoset CD34 transfectant. One representative MAb, MA24 (IgM),
reacted with approximately 0.5 to 1% of BM mononuclear cells (MNCs), where the
colony-forming unit granulocyte/macrophage (CFU-GM) was enriched approximately
11- to 75-fold as compared with the whole BM MNCs. Multilineage differentiation
of marmoset CD34+ cells in NOD/SCID mice was confirmed by flow cytometry 1 month 
after xenotransplantation.
CONCLUSION: These results demonstrated that MA24 is useful for the analysis and
enrichment of hematopoietic progenitor cells in the marmoset model for
preclinical experiments.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exphem.2004.06.007 
PMID: 15345286  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

