

2789. Clin Neuropharmacol. 2004 Jul-Aug;27(4):171-7.

Levetiracetam Interferes With the L-dopa priming process in MPTP-lesioned
drug-naive marmosets.

Hill MP(1), Brotchie JM, Crossman AR, Bezard E, Michel A, Grimée R, Klitgaard H.

Author information: 
(1)Motac Neuroscience, Ltd., Manchester, UK.

OBJECTIVE: Levetiracetam (LEV; Keppra, UCB Pharma) has been shown to reduce
established l-3,4 dihydroxyphenylalanine (l-dopa)-induced dyskinesia. This study 
investigated whether LEV can modify induction of dyskinesia by l-dopa or the
process of priming.
METHODS: Drug-naive MPTP (1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine) -lesioned
marmosets were treated for 21 days with l-dopa/LEV or l-dopa alone. Subsequently,
the animals were left untreated for 1 week and then both groups were challenged
with a single dose of l-dopa alone on day 29. Behavior was assessed by automated 
activity counts and by post hoc analysis of videotapes using validated rating
scales.
RESULTS: LEV had no significant effect on the appearance of dyskinesia when
administered de novo in combination with l-dopa. However, after a week of drug
holiday, the 2 groups exhibited a different response to an acute l-dopa
challenge. Thus, animals previously treated with l-dopa alone exhibited a similar
level of dyskinesia to that seen on day 21 of the repeated treatment phase of the
study. However, animals previously treated with l-dopa/LEV demonstrated
significantly reduced dyskinesia compared with day 21 of the repeated treatment
phase of the study.
CONCLUSIONS: LEV does not modify the onset of dyskinesia following de novo
treatment with l-dopa. However, concomitant treatment with l-dopa/LEV reduces the
level of dyskinesia induced by l-dopa following a drug holiday. Thus, prior
treatment with LEV appears to modify the mechanisms responsible for the
maintenance of l-dopa-induced dyskinesia.

DOI: 10.1097/01.wnf.0000135478.70905.3d 
PMID: 15319703  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2790. Biol Reprod. 2004 Dec;71(6):2087-91. Epub 2004 Aug 18.

Cografting of hamster (Phodopus sungorus) and marmoset (Callithrix jacchus)
testicular tissues into nude mice does not overcome blockade of early
spermatogenic differentiation in primate grafts.

Wistuba J(1), Mundry M, Luetjens CM, Schlatt S.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Reproductive Medicine, University Münster, 48129 Münster,
Germany.

The ectopic xenotransplantation of testicular tissues into nude mice is a tool to
generate sperm from immature testes. Immunodeficient mice as recipients of
xenografts offered an appropriate microenvironment for differentiation of
testicular tissue from hamsters, goats, pigs, and macaques. One exception is the 
neotropical primate Callithrix jacchus. Spermatogenesis in testicular grafts from
marmosets does not proceed beyond the spermatogonial stage. The most likely cause
for the poor graft development of marmosets is a deletion of exon 10 in the
luteinizing hormone-receptor (LHR) gene, which renders this species insensitive
to LH but responsive to chorionic gonadotropin (CG). We investigated whether
cografting of testicular tissue from Djungarian hamsters would overcome the
blockade in marmoset graft development. We also tested if exogenous
administration of human CG (hCG) to the recipient would stimulate development of 
the marmoset tissue. No difference in graft survival was noted between hamster
and monkey tissue. Seminiferous lumina were present in marmoset and hamster
grafts but were significantly larger in hamster grafts. In the hamster grafts, a 
high proportion of the tubules contained meiotic and postmeiotic germ cells. In
contrast, the marmoset tubules were populated with gonocytes and premeiotic
spermatogonia. These results indicate that neither normal serum androgen levels
nor the high local testosterone levels were sufficient to initiate marmoset
spermatogenesis, nor was administration of hCG successful in overcoming the
developmental blockade in marmoset tissue. Our results indicate that the
conditions needed for initiation of spermatogenesis in the marmoset are
remarkably different from those present in most other mammals.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod.104.033431 
PMID: 15317690  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

