

2790. Biol Reprod. 2004 Dec;71(6):2087-91. Epub 2004 Aug 18.

Cografting of hamster (Phodopus sungorus) and marmoset (Callithrix jacchus)
testicular tissues into nude mice does not overcome blockade of early
spermatogenic differentiation in primate grafts.

Wistuba J(1), Mundry M, Luetjens CM, Schlatt S.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Reproductive Medicine, University Münster, 48129 Münster,
Germany.

The ectopic xenotransplantation of testicular tissues into nude mice is a tool to
generate sperm from immature testes. Immunodeficient mice as recipients of
xenografts offered an appropriate microenvironment for differentiation of
testicular tissue from hamsters, goats, pigs, and macaques. One exception is the 
neotropical primate Callithrix jacchus. Spermatogenesis in testicular grafts from
marmosets does not proceed beyond the spermatogonial stage. The most likely cause
for the poor graft development of marmosets is a deletion of exon 10 in the
luteinizing hormone-receptor (LHR) gene, which renders this species insensitive
to LH but responsive to chorionic gonadotropin (CG). We investigated whether
cografting of testicular tissue from Djungarian hamsters would overcome the
blockade in marmoset graft development. We also tested if exogenous
administration of human CG (hCG) to the recipient would stimulate development of 
the marmoset tissue. No difference in graft survival was noted between hamster
and monkey tissue. Seminiferous lumina were present in marmoset and hamster
grafts but were significantly larger in hamster grafts. In the hamster grafts, a 
high proportion of the tubules contained meiotic and postmeiotic germ cells. In
contrast, the marmoset tubules were populated with gonocytes and premeiotic
spermatogonia. These results indicate that neither normal serum androgen levels
nor the high local testosterone levels were sufficient to initiate marmoset
spermatogenesis, nor was administration of hCG successful in overcoming the
developmental blockade in marmoset tissue. Our results indicate that the
conditions needed for initiation of spermatogenesis in the marmoset are
remarkably different from those present in most other mammals.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod.104.033431 
PMID: 15317690  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2791. J Biol Chem. 2004 Oct 22;279(43):44442-59. Epub 2004 Aug 9.

Model of glycoprotein hormone receptor ligand binding and signaling.

Moyle WR(1), Xing Y, Lin W, Cao D, Myers RV, Kerrigan JE, Bernard MP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of OB-GYN, Robert Wood Johnson (Rutgers) Medical School,
Piscataway, New Jersey 08854, USA. moyle@umdnj.edu

Studies described here were initiated to develop a model of glycoprotein hormone 
receptor structure and function. We found that the region that links the lutropin
receptor leucine-rich repeat domain (LRD) to its transmembrane domain (TMD) has
substantial roles in ligand binding and signaling, hence we term it the signaling
specificity domain (SSD). Theoretical considerations indicated the short SSDs in 
marmoset lutropin and salmon follitropin receptors have KH domain folds. We
assembled models of lutropin, follitropin, and thyrotropin receptors by aligning 
models of their LRD, TMD, and shortened SSD in a manner that explains how
substitutions in follitropin and thyrotropin receptors distant from their
apparent ligand binding sites enable them to recognize lutropins. In these
models, the SSD is parallel to the concave surface of the LRD and makes extensive
contacts with TMD outer loops 1 and 2. The LRD appears to contact TMD outer loop 
3 and a few residues in helices 1, 5, 6, and 7. We propose that signaling results
from contacts of the ligands with the SSD and LRD that alter the LRD, which then 
moves TMD helices 6 and 7. The positions of the LRD and SSD support the notion
that the receptor can be activated by hormones that dock with these domains in
either of two different orientations. This would account for the abilities of
some ligands and ligand chimeras to bind multiple receptors and for some
receptors to bind multiple ligands. This property of the receptor may have
contributed significantly to ligand-receptor co-evolution.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M406948200 
PMID: 15304493  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

