

2794. J Hum Evol. 2004 Jul-Aug;47(1-2):85-94.

Locomotor mechanics of the slender loris (Loris tardigradus).

Schmitt D(1), Lemelin P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Anthropology and Anatomy, Duke University Medical
Center, Box 3170, Durham, NC 27710, USA. Daniel_Schmitt@baa.mc.duke.edu

The quadrupedal walking gaits of most primates can be distinguished from those of
most other mammals by the presence of diagonal-sequence (DS) footfall patterns
and higher peak vertical forces on the hindlimbs compared to the forelimbs. The
walking gait of the woolly opossum (Caluromys philander), a highly arboreal
marsupial, is also characterized by diagonal-sequence footfalls and relatively
low peak forelimb forces. Among primates, three species--Callithrix, Nycticebus, 
and Loris--have been reported to frequently use lateral-sequence (LS) gaits and
experience relatively higher peak vertical forces on the forelimbs. These
patterns among primates and other mammals suggest a strong association between
footfall patterns and force distribution on the limbs. However, current data for 
lorises are limited and the frequency of DS vs. LS walking gaits in Loris is
still ambiguous. To test the hypothesis that patterns of footfalls and force
distribution on the limbs are functionally linked, kinematic and kinetic data
were collected simultaneously for three adult slender lorises (Loris tardigradus)
walking on a 1.25 cm horizontal pole. All subjects in this study consistently
used diagonal-sequence walking gaits and always had higher peak vertical forces
on their forelimbs relative to their hindlimbs. These results call into question 
the hypothesis that a functional link exists between the presence of
diagonal-sequence walking gaits and relatively higher peak vertical forces on the
hindlimbs. In addition, this study tested models that explain patterns of force
distribution based on limb protraction angle or limb compliance. None of the
Loris subjects examined showed kinematic patterns that would support current
models proposing that weight distribution can be adjusted by actively shifting
weight posteriorly or by changing limb stiffness. These data reveal the
complexity of adaptations to arboreal locomotion in primates and indicate that
diagonal-sequence walking gaits and relatively low forelimb forces could have
evolved independently.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhevol.2004.05.006 
PMID: 15288525  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2795. J Morphol. 2004 Sep;261(3):276-85.

Comparative analysis of masseter fiber architecture in tree-gouging (Callithrix
jacchus) and nongouging (Saguinus oedipus) callitrichids.

Taylor AB(1), Vinyard CJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Community and Family Medicine, Duke University School of
Medicine, Durham, North Carolina 27710, USA. andrea.taylor@duke.edu

Common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) and cotton-top tamarins (Saguinus oedipus) 
(Callitrichidae, Primates) share a broadly similar diet of fruits, insects, and
tree exudates. Common marmosets, however, differ from tamarins by actively
gouging trees with their anterior teeth to elicit tree exudate flow. During tree 
gouging, marmosets produce relatively large jaw gapes, but do not necessarily
produce relatively large bite forces at the anterior teeth. We compared the fiber
architecture of the masseter muscle in tree-gouging Callithrix jacchus (n = 10)
to nongouging Saguinus oedipus (n = 8) to determine whether the marmoset masseter
facilitates producing these large gapes during tree gouging. We predict that the 
marmoset masseter has relatively longer fibers and, hence, greater potential
muscle excursion (i.e., a greater range of motion through increased muscle
stretch). Conversely, because of the expected trade-off between excursion and
force production in muscle architecture, we predict that the cotton-top tamarin
masseter has more pinnate fibers and increased physiological cross-sectional area
(PCSA) as compared to common marmosets. Likewise, the S. oedipus masseter is
predicted to have a greater proportion of tendon relative to muscle fiber as
compared to the common marmoset masseter. Common marmosets have absolutely and
relatively longer masseter fibers than cotton-top tamarins. Given that fiber
length is directly proportional to muscle excursion and by extension contraction 
velocity, this result suggests that marmosets have masseters designed for
relatively greater stretching and, hence, larger gapes. Conversely, the
cotton-top tamarin masseter has a greater angle of pinnation (but not
significantly so), larger PCSA, and higher proportion of tendon. The
significantly larger PCSA in the tamarin masseter suggests that their masseter
has relatively greater force production capabilities as compared to marmosets.
Collectively, these results suggest that the fiber architecture of the common
marmoset masseter is part of a suite of features of the masticatory apparatus
that facilitates the production of relatively large gapes during tree gouging.

Copyright 2004 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jmor.10249 
PMID: 15281057  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

