

28. ILAR J. 2020 Dec 31;61(2-3):110-138. doi: 10.1093/ilar/ilab027.

An Introduction to the Callithrix Genus and Overview of Recent Advances in
Marmoset Research.

Malukiewicz J(1), Boere V(2), de Oliveira MAB(3), D'arc M(4), Ferreira JVA(5),
French J(6), Housman G(7), de Souza CI(8), Jerusalinsky L(9), R de Melo
F(10)(11), M Valença-Montenegro M(9), Moreira SB(12), de Oliveira E Silva I(2),
Pacheco FS(11)(13), Rogers J(14), Pissinatti A(12), Del Rosario RCH(15), Ross
C(16)(17), Ruiz-Miranda CR(18), Pereira LCM(5), Schiel N(19), de Fátima Rodrigues
da Silva F(11), Souto A(20), Šlipogor V(21)(22), Tardif S(17).

Author information: 
(1)Primate Genetics Laboratory, German Primate Centre, Leibniz Institute for
Primate Research, Goettingen, Germany.
(2)Institute of Humanities, Arts, and Sciences, Federal University of Southern
Bahia, Itabuna, Bahia, Brazil.
(3)Department of Animal Morphology and Physiology, Federal Rural University of
Pernambuco, Recife, Pernambuco, Brazil.
(4)Department of Genetics, Federal University of Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, 
Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
(5)Centro de Conservação e Manejo de Fauna da Caatinga, UNIVASF, Petrolina,
Pernambuco, Brazil.
(6)Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska Omaha, Omaha, Nebraska, USA.
(7)Genetic Medicine, University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois, USA.
(8)Veterinary Care, Guarulhos Municiple Zoo, Guarulhos, São Paulo, Brazil.
(9)Instituto Chico Mendes de Conservação da Biodiversidade, Centro Nacional de
Pesquisa e Conservação de Primatas Brasileiros (ICMBio/CPB), Cabedelo, Paraíba,
Brazil.
(10)Department of Forest Engineering, Federal University of Viçosa, Viçosa, Minas
Gerais, Brazil.
(11)Centro de Conservação dos Saguis-da-Serra, Federal University of Viçosa,
Viçosa, Minas Gerais, Brazil.
(12)Centro de Primatologia do Rio de Janeiro, Guapimirim, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
(13)Post-Graduate Program in Animal Biology, Federal University of Viçosa,
Viçosa, Minas Gerais, Brazil.
(14)Human Genome Sequencing Center, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas,
USA.
(15)Stanley Center for Psychiatric Research, Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, 
Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA.
(16)Science and Mathematics, Texas A&M University San Antonio, San Antonio,
Texas, USA.
(17)Texas Biomedical Research Institute, Southwest National Primate Research
Center, San Antonio, Texas, USA.
(18)Laboratory of Environmental Sciences, Center for Biosciences and
Biotechnology, Universidade Estadual do Norte Fluminense Darcy Ribeiro, Campos
dos Goytacazes, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
(19)Department of Biology, Federal Rural University of Pernambuco, Recife,
Brazil.
(20)Department of Zoology, Federal University of Pernambuco, Recife, Pernambuco, 
Brazil.
(21)Department of Behavioral and Cognitive Biology, University of Vienna, Vienna,
Austria.
(22)Department of Zoology, Faculty of Science, University of South Bohemia, České
Budějovice, Czechia.

We provide here a current overview of marmoset (Callithrix) evolution,
hybridization, species biology, basic/biomedical research, and conservation
initiatives. Composed of 2 subgroups, the aurita group (C aurita and C flaviceps)
and the jacchus group (C geoffroyi, C jacchus, C kuhlii, and C penicillata), this
relatively young primate radiation is endemic to the Brazilian Cerrado, Caatinga,
and Atlantic Forest biomes. Significant impacts on Callithrix within these biomes
resulting from anthropogenic activity include (1) population declines,
particularly for the aurita group; (2) widespread geographic displacement,
biological invasions, and range expansions of C jacchus and C penicillata; (3)
anthropogenic hybridization; and (4) epizootic Yellow Fever and Zika viral
outbreaks. A number of Brazilian legal and conservation initiatives are now in
place to protect the threatened aurita group and increase research about them.
Due to their small size and rapid life history, marmosets are prized biomedical
models. As a result, there are increasingly sophisticated genomic Callithrix
resources available and burgeoning marmoset functional, immuno-, and epigenomic
research. In both the laboratory and the wild, marmosets have given us insight
into cognition, social group dynamics, human disease, and pregnancy. Callithrix
jacchus and C penicillata are emerging neotropical primate models for arbovirus
disease, including Dengue and Zika. Wild marmoset populations are helping us
understand sylvatic transmission and human spillover of Zika and Yellow Fever
viruses. All of these factors are positioning marmosets as preeminent models to
facilitate understanding of facets of evolution, hybridization, conservation,
human disease, and emerging infectious diseases.

© The Author(s) 2021. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the
National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine 2021. All rights
reserved. For permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/ilar/ilab027 
PMID: 34933341 


29. J Virol. 2022 Feb 23;96(4):e0173921. doi: 10.1128/JVI.01739-21. Epub 2021 Dec 15.

Comparison of Experimental Middle East Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus Infection
Acquired by Three Individual Routes of Infection in the Common Marmoset.

Nelson M(1), O'Brien LM(1), Davies C(1), Keyser E(1), Butcher W(1), Smither
SJ(1), Nunez A(2), Salguero FJ(3), Lever MS(1).

Author information: 
(1)CBR Division, Defence Science and Technology Laboratorygrid.417845.b (Dstl),
Porton Down, Salisbury, Wiltshire, United Kingdom.
(2)Animal and Plant Health Agency, Weybridge, Addlestone, Surrey, United Kingdom.
(3)Public Health Englandgrid.271308.f, Salisbury, United Kingdom.

Two strains of Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV), England 1
and Erasmus Medical Centre/2012 (EMC/2012), were used to challenge common
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) by three routes of infection: aerosol, oral, and
intranasal. Animals challenged by the intranasal and aerosol routes presented
with mild, transient disease, while those challenged by the oral route presented 
with a subclinical immunological response. Animals challenged with MERS-CoV
strain EMC/2012 by the aerosol route responded with primary and/or secondary
pyrexia. Marmosets had minimal to mild multifocal interstitial pneumonia, with
the greatest relative severity being observed in animals challenged by the
aerosol route. Viable virus was isolated from the host in throat swabs and lung
tissue. The transient disease described is consistent with a successful host
response and was characterized by the upregulation of macrophage and neutrophil
function observed in all animals at the time of euthanasia. IMPORTANCE Middle
East respiratory syndrome is caused by a human coronavirus, MERS-CoV, similar to 
severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2). Humans typically
exhibit fever, cough, shortness of breath, gastrointestinal issues, and breathing
difficulties, which can lead to pneumonia and/or renal complications. This
emerging disease resulted in the first human lethal cases in 2012 and has a case 
fatality rate of approximately 36%. Consequently, there is a need for medical
countermeasures and appropriate animal models for their assessment. This work has
demonstrated the requirement for higher concentrations of virus to cause overt
disease. Challenge by the aerosol, intranasal, and oral routes resulted in no or 
mild disease, but all animals had an immunological response. This shows that an
appropriate early immunological response is able to control the disease.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.01739-21 
PMCID: PMC8865480
PMID: 34908447  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

