

2803. Reproduction. 2004 Jul;128(1):107-16.

Angiogenesis and microvascular development in the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus)
endometrium during early pregnancy.

Rowe AJ(1), Wulff C, Fraser HM.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council Human Reproductive Sciences Unit, Centre for
Reproductive Biology, University of Edinburgh Chancellor's Building, 49 Little
France Crescent, Edinburgh, EH16 4SB, UK.

The aim of the study was to describe and quantify the changes in the maternal
vasculature and angiogenesis during early pregnancy in the marmoset endometrium
using bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) to identify proliferating cells, CD31 to label
endothelial cells and dual staining to identify proliferating endothelial cells. 
Non-pregnant animals from mid- and late secretory stages were studied and
compared with pregnant animals at weeks 2, 3 and 4 of pregnancy. Qualitative and 
morphometric analyses of angiogenesis and vascular area were performed. The
results show that pregnancy is associated with increasing angiogenesis in the
upper zone of the endometrium, becoming significantly increased at 3 weeks. This 
is associated with an increase in the vessel area and diameter in this zone.
These results provide the platform from which to design studies in which specific
angiogenic factors can be targeted in vivo during early pregnancy in order to
determine their role in regulating these vascular changes.

DOI: 10.1530/rep.1.00208 
PMID: 15232068  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2804. Biol Psychiatry. 2004 Jul 15;56(2):72-9.

Deprivation of parenting disrupts development of homeostatic and reward systems
in marmoset monkey offspring.

Pryce CR(1), Dettling AC, Spengler M, Schnell CR, Feldon J.

Author information: 
(1)Behavioural Neurobiology Laboratory, Swiss Federal Institute of Technology
Zurich, Schwerzenbach, Switzerland.

BACKGROUND: Early environment is a major determinant of long-term mental health, 
evidenced by the relationship between early-life neglect or abuse and chronically
increased vulnerability to developmental psychopathology, including major
depressive disorder (MDD). Animal studies can increase understanding of
environmentally mediated causal risk processes. We describe how daily deprivation
of biological parenting in primate infants disrupts development of homeostatic
and reward systems central to MDD.
METHODS: Nine breeding pairs of marmoset monkeys provided control twins (CON) and
early-deprived twins (ED); the latter were socially isolated for 30-120 min/day
on days 2-28. During the first year of life, basal urinary norepinephrine (NE)
titers and cardiophysiologic activity were measured. At the end of year 1
(adolescence), automated neuropsychologic tests were conducted to measure
responsiveness to changes in stimulus-reward association (simple/reversed visual 
discrimination learning) and to reward per se (progressive ratio [PR]
reinforcement schedule).
RESULTS: The ED monkeys exhibited increased basal urinary NE titers and increased
systolic blood pressure relative to CON siblings. The ED monkeys required more
sessions to reinstate stimulus-oriented behavior following reversal, suggesting
increased vulnerability to perceived loss of environmental control; ED monkeys
also performed less PR operant responses, indicating that reward was less of an
incentive and that they were mildly anhedonic relative to CON.
CONCLUSIONS: In marmoset monkeys, neglect-like manipulation of ED leads to
chronic changes in homeostatic systems, similar to those in children and
adolescents exposed to early-life adversity and in MDD, and to responses to
environmental stimuli similar to those that characterize MDD.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopsych.2004.05.002 
PMID: 15231438  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

