

2804. Biol Psychiatry. 2004 Jul 15;56(2):72-9.

Deprivation of parenting disrupts development of homeostatic and reward systems
in marmoset monkey offspring.

Pryce CR(1), Dettling AC, Spengler M, Schnell CR, Feldon J.

Author information: 
(1)Behavioural Neurobiology Laboratory, Swiss Federal Institute of Technology
Zurich, Schwerzenbach, Switzerland.

BACKGROUND: Early environment is a major determinant of long-term mental health, 
evidenced by the relationship between early-life neglect or abuse and chronically
increased vulnerability to developmental psychopathology, including major
depressive disorder (MDD). Animal studies can increase understanding of
environmentally mediated causal risk processes. We describe how daily deprivation
of biological parenting in primate infants disrupts development of homeostatic
and reward systems central to MDD.
METHODS: Nine breeding pairs of marmoset monkeys provided control twins (CON) and
early-deprived twins (ED); the latter were socially isolated for 30-120 min/day
on days 2-28. During the first year of life, basal urinary norepinephrine (NE)
titers and cardiophysiologic activity were measured. At the end of year 1
(adolescence), automated neuropsychologic tests were conducted to measure
responsiveness to changes in stimulus-reward association (simple/reversed visual 
discrimination learning) and to reward per se (progressive ratio [PR]
reinforcement schedule).
RESULTS: The ED monkeys exhibited increased basal urinary NE titers and increased
systolic blood pressure relative to CON siblings. The ED monkeys required more
sessions to reinstate stimulus-oriented behavior following reversal, suggesting
increased vulnerability to perceived loss of environmental control; ED monkeys
also performed less PR operant responses, indicating that reward was less of an
incentive and that they were mildly anhedonic relative to CON.
CONCLUSIONS: In marmoset monkeys, neglect-like manipulation of ED leads to
chronic changes in homeostatic systems, similar to those in children and
adolescents exposed to early-life adversity and in MDD, and to responses to
environmental stimuli similar to those that characterize MDD.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopsych.2004.05.002 
PMID: 15231438  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2805. Primates. 2004 Oct;45(4):249-54. Epub 2004 Jun 22.

Sex differences in common Marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) in response to an
unfamiliar food task.

Yamamoto ME(1), Domeniconi C, Box H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Norte, Caixa
Postal 1511, 59072-970, Natal, RN, Brazil. emilia.yamamoto@uol.com.br.

There is a growing body of information on sex differences in callitrichid
behaviour that includes the animals' performance in food tasks. For example, both
reproductive and non-reproductive adult females have been found to be more
successful than adult males in solving food tasks. In this study ten adult male
and ten adult female common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus), housed individually, 
were tested with an unfamiliar task that involved the extraction of an embedded
food. The task was to open a plastic canister that contained a raisin; the open
end was covered with parchment paper. Each marmoset was given 15 trials in three 
blocks of 5 consecutive days. We measured the latency for each animal to open the
lid and get the raisin--by one of five strategies that spontaneously emerged. The
females learned the task faster and more efficiently than males; all the females 
opened the canister on day 1, for instance, in contrast to seven of the males on 
the same day. Females also progressively decreased the time that they took to
open the tube. The final latency on day 15, for instance, was significantly
shorter for the females. These results are consistent with relevant literature
for callitrichids and cannot be accounted for in terms of differences in mental
abilities, strength, hand morphology, or energy requirements. Further
investigation is necessary to clarify the reasons for these differences.

DOI: 10.1007/s10329-004-0088-6 
PMID: 15221663  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

