

2805. Primates. 2004 Oct;45(4):249-54. Epub 2004 Jun 22.

Sex differences in common Marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) in response to an
unfamiliar food task.

Yamamoto ME(1), Domeniconi C, Box H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Norte, Caixa
Postal 1511, 59072-970, Natal, RN, Brazil. emilia.yamamoto@uol.com.br.

There is a growing body of information on sex differences in callitrichid
behaviour that includes the animals' performance in food tasks. For example, both
reproductive and non-reproductive adult females have been found to be more
successful than adult males in solving food tasks. In this study ten adult male
and ten adult female common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus), housed individually, 
were tested with an unfamiliar task that involved the extraction of an embedded
food. The task was to open a plastic canister that contained a raisin; the open
end was covered with parchment paper. Each marmoset was given 15 trials in three 
blocks of 5 consecutive days. We measured the latency for each animal to open the
lid and get the raisin--by one of five strategies that spontaneously emerged. The
females learned the task faster and more efficiently than males; all the females 
opened the canister on day 1, for instance, in contrast to seven of the males on 
the same day. Females also progressively decreased the time that they took to
open the tube. The final latency on day 15, for instance, was significantly
shorter for the females. These results are consistent with relevant literature
for callitrichids and cannot be accounted for in terms of differences in mental
abilities, strength, hand morphology, or energy requirements. Further
investigation is necessary to clarify the reasons for these differences.

DOI: 10.1007/s10329-004-0088-6 
PMID: 15221663  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2806. Pharmacol Biochem Behav. 2004 Jun;78(2):357-67.

Multibehavioral analysis of fear and anxiety before, during, and after
experimentally induced predatory stress in Callithrix penicillata.

Barros M(1), de Souza Silva MA, Huston JP, Tomaz C.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Physiological Psychology and Center for Biological and Medical
Research, University of Düsseldorf, Universitätsstrasse 1, 40225 Düsseldorf,
Germany. mbarros@unb.br

A detailed behavioral analysis of nine Callithrix penicillata was conducted in
the Marmoset Predator Confrontation Test (MPCT) during (a) four habituation
trials with no "predator," (b) six confrontation trials with the predator
(taxidermized oncilla cat, Felis tigrina), and (c) four trials with the predator 
removed. The marmosets habituated to the test apparatus with significant
decreases in locomotion, exploration and long calls. Initial exposure to the
predator elicited mainly fear-related behaviors (proximic avoidance, tsik-tsik
vocalization, swaying/tongue in-out), whereas repeated confrontations attenuated 
these behaviors, concomitant to an increase in anxiety-associated responses
(scratching/grooming/scent marking). The initial behavioral repertoire, observed 
before confrontations, was fully restored only upon removal of the predator. This
easily discernable complex defensive behavioral repertoire is hoped to provide a 
comprehensive baseline for studying the biological substrates of fear/anxiety
parameters in nonhuman primates.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pbb.2004.04.008 
PMID: 15219778  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

