

2807. Cytogenet Genome Res. 2004;105(1):54-6.

The evolutionary conservation of the human chitotriosidase gene in rodents and
primates.

Gianfrancesco F(1), Musumeci S.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Population Genetics, CNR, Alghero, Italy.
F.Gianfrancesco@igm.ss.cnr.it

Chitinases have been identified in a variety of organisms ranging from
prokaryotes to eukaryotes, known to specifically degrade chitin, an abundant
polymer of N-acetylglucosamine. Recently a human chitinolytic enzyme called CHIT1
was discovered. CHIT1 is expressed by activated macrophages and hydrolyzes
artificial chitotrioside substrates, but its specific function in humans is
unknown, since it is generally believed that man completely lacks endogenous
chitin and endogenous substrates for chitinases. An intriguing question is
whether the chitotriosidase activity is just an evolutionary remnant or it has a 
physiological function in man. To test these hypotheses we utilized a
"phylogenomic" approach performing accurate sequence analyses of this gene,
coding for CHIT1, in rodents and primates. Inspecting the sequences available in 
public databases, we determined that this gene is conserved in rodents (mouse and
rat) and primates (chimpanzee, gorilla, orangutan, gibbon, baboon, a common
marmoset and black macaque). Moreover we found that a 24-base pair duplication
that determines an enzymatically inactive human protein is not present in
primates, suggesting that this polymorphism was created during human evolution.
These results indicate that chitotriosidase is conserved across the evolutionary 
scale. Such conservation of the CHIT1 gene argues in favour of an important
biological role.

Copyright 2003 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 10.1159/000078009 
PMID: 15218258  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2808. Endocrinology. 2004 Oct;145(10):4480-8. Epub 2004 Jun 17.

Serine residues 338 and 339 in the carboxyl-terminal tail of the type II
gonadotropin-releasing hormone receptor are critical for
beta-arrestin-independent internalization.

Ronacher K(1), Matsiliza N, Nkwanyana N, Pawson AJ, Adam T, Flanagan CA, Millar
RP, Katz AA.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council Research Group for Receptor Biology, Division of
Medical Biochemistry, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of Cape Town, Anzio 
Road, Observatory 7925, South Africa.

Cloned mammalian type II GnRH receptors have a carboxyl-terminal tail in contrast
to the mammalian type I GnRH receptors, which uniquely lack a carboxyl-terminal
tail. Because this domain mediates internalization of many serpentine receptors, 
the internalization pathway of the marmoset monkey type II GnRH receptor and the 
functional role of the carboxyl-terminal tail in internalization was studied. The
internalization pathway of the type II GnRH receptor was investigated in COS-1
cells by coexpressing G protein-coupled receptor kinases (GRKs), dynamin-1, and
beta-arrestins. Internalization of the receptor requires GRKs and dynamin but
does not require beta-arrestin. The type II GnRH receptor can also internalize
via beta-arrestin in the presence of exogenous beta-arrestins, suggesting that
the receptor can use two distinct internalization pathways. Receptor
internalization appears to occur via clathrin-coated pits and caveolae because
disruption of either structure inhibits internalization. Progressive truncations 
of the carboxyl-terminal tail identified a region containing serine residues 338 
and 339 as critical for receptor internalization. Substitution of these serine
residues with alanine residues inhibited internalization, whereas substitutions
with glutamic acid residues rescued internalization. Furthermore, a
dominant-negative GRK2 did not inhibit internalization of receptors having these 
serine substitutions, although it inhibited internalization of the wild-type
receptor. These results together identify serine residues 338 and 339 in the
carboxyl-terminal tail as critical for internalization of the type II GnRH
receptor and suggest that these residues undergo phosphorylation by GRKs.
However, neither of these residues, nor the carboxyl-terminal tail, is required
for beta-arrestin-dependent internalization.

DOI: 10.1210/en.2004-0075 
PMID: 15205374  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

