

2818. Mol Hum Reprod. 2004 Jul;10(7):481-8. Epub 2004 May 28.

Localization and synthesis of zona pellucida proteins in the marmoset monkey
(Callithrix jacchus) ovary.

Bogner K(1), Hinsch KD, Nayudu P, Konrad L, Cassara C, Hinsch E.

Author information: 
(1)Center of Dermatology and Andrology, University of Giessen, Gaffkystr. 14,
D-35392 Giessen, Germany.

In most species, the zona pellucida (ZP), an extracellular matrix surrounding the
mammalian oocyte, is composed of three glycoproteins: ZPA, ZPB and ZPC. Based
mainly on results with mice, the site of zona pellucida biosynthesis has been
suggested to be exclusively in the oocyte cytoplasm. However, evidence is
accumulating that among various species cumulus/granulosa cells may be involved. 
Because knowledge of ZP biosynthesis in primates is lacking, we used the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) to acquire information about the localization and
the site of synthesis of ZP proteins in this species. Using antibodies against
synthetic ZPA and ZPC peptides, immunoreactivity was found in the marmoset ZP and
in surrounding cumulus cells. Interestingly, the amounts of ZPA and ZPC proteins 
expressed appeared to differ depending on the stage of folliculogenesis. RT-PCR
analysis of mRNA from marmoset oocytes and from oocyte-free follicle cells
revealed expression of ZPA, ZPB and ZPC in oocytes and in follicle cells of
different stages of marmoset monkey folliculogenesis. Our data suggest that the
biosynthesis of marmoset ZPA, ZPB and ZPC proteins takes place both in oocytes
and in follicle cells of different follicle stages, although the abundance of ZP 
glycoproteins may differ depending on the individual ZP protein.

DOI: 10.1093/molehr/gah074 
PMID: 15169921  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2819. Chem Senses. 2004 May;29(4):301-10.

Morphological evidence for two types of Mammalian vomeronasal system.

Takigami S(1), Mori Y, Tanioka Y, Ichikawa M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Basic Technics and Facilities, Tokyo Metropolitan Institute for 
Neuroscience, 2-6 Musashidai, Fuchu, Tokyo 183-8526, Japan.

The vomeronasal (VN) systems of rodents and opossums are of the segregated type, 
i.e alpha-subtype G protein Gi2- or Go-expressing VN neurons, which are sensory
cells, project discretely to the rostral or caudal region of the accessory
olfactory bulb (AOB). Although this zone-specific projection is believed to be a 
common feature for processing pheromones in mammals, we previously found a
uniform-type VN system in goat in which only Gi2-expressing VN axons terminate at
the AOB. In most mammals, it remains unclear whether their VN systems are of the 
segregated or uniform type. Therefore, we investigated morphologically the VN
systems of different mammalian species (dog, horse, musk shrew and common
marmoset). Consequently, all VN axons of the examined animals were positively
stained with immunohistochemistry for Gi2 in the same way as that in the goat. On
the other hand, we observed immunoreactivities against Go in the olfactory axons,
but not in the VN axons. These results suggest that many mammals have
uniform-type VN systems, and at least two types of VN systems exist in
terrestrial mammals. This morphological evidence will help us determine the
processing function of VN systems.

DOI: 10.1093/chemse/bjh032 
PMID: 15150143  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

