

2819. Chem Senses. 2004 May;29(4):301-10.

Morphological evidence for two types of Mammalian vomeronasal system.

Takigami S(1), Mori Y, Tanioka Y, Ichikawa M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Basic Technics and Facilities, Tokyo Metropolitan Institute for 
Neuroscience, 2-6 Musashidai, Fuchu, Tokyo 183-8526, Japan.

The vomeronasal (VN) systems of rodents and opossums are of the segregated type, 
i.e alpha-subtype G protein Gi2- or Go-expressing VN neurons, which are sensory
cells, project discretely to the rostral or caudal region of the accessory
olfactory bulb (AOB). Although this zone-specific projection is believed to be a 
common feature for processing pheromones in mammals, we previously found a
uniform-type VN system in goat in which only Gi2-expressing VN axons terminate at
the AOB. In most mammals, it remains unclear whether their VN systems are of the 
segregated or uniform type. Therefore, we investigated morphologically the VN
systems of different mammalian species (dog, horse, musk shrew and common
marmoset). Consequently, all VN axons of the examined animals were positively
stained with immunohistochemistry for Gi2 in the same way as that in the goat. On
the other hand, we observed immunoreactivities against Go in the olfactory axons,
but not in the VN axons. These results suggest that many mammals have
uniform-type VN systems, and at least two types of VN systems exist in
terrestrial mammals. This morphological evidence will help us determine the
processing function of VN systems.

DOI: 10.1093/chemse/bjh032 
PMID: 15150143  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2820. Science. 2004 May 7;304(5672):878-80.

Cognitive inflexibility after prefrontal serotonin depletion.

Clarke HF(1), Dalley JW, Crofts HS, Robbins TW, Roberts AC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, University of Cambridge, Downing
Street, Cambridge, UK.

Serotonergic dysregulation within the prefrontal cortex (PFC) is implicated in
many neuropsychiatric disorders, but the precise role of serotonin within the PFC
is poorly understood. Using a serial discrimination reversal paradigm, we showed 
that upon reversal, selective serotonin depletion of the marmoset PFC produced
perseverative responding to the previously rewarded stimulus without any
significant effects on either retention of a discrimination learned
preoperatively or acquisition of a novel discrimination postoperatively. These
results highlight the importance of prefrontal serotonin in behavioral
flexibility and are highly relevant to obsessive-compulsive disorder,
schizophrenia, and the cognitive sequelae of drug abuse in which perseveration is
prominent.

DOI: 10.1126/science.1094987 
PMID: 15131308  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

