

2823. Mol Cell Biol. 2004 May;24(10):4522-33.

The Herpesvirus saimiri small nuclear RNAs recruit AU-rich element-binding
proteins but do not alter host AU-rich element-containing mRNA levels in virally 
transformed T cells.

Cook HL(1), Mischo HE, Steitz JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biophysics and Biochemistry, Howard Hughes Medical
Institute, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut 06536, USA.

Herpesvirus saimiri (HVS) encodes seven Sm-class small nuclear RNAs, called HSURs
(for Herpesvirus saimiri U RNAs), that are abundantly expressed in
HVS-transformed, latently infected marmoset T cells but are of unknown function. 
HSURs 1, 2, and 5 have highly conserved 5'-end sequences containing the AUUUA
pentamer characteristic of AU-rich elements (AREs) that regulate the stability of
many host mRNAs, including those encoding most proto-oncogenes and cytokines. To 
test whether the ARE-containing HSURs act to sequester host proteins that
regulate the decay of these mRNAs, we demonstrate their in vivo interaction with 
the ARE-binding proteins hnRNP D and HuR in HVS-transformed T cells using a new
cross-linking assay. Comprehensive Northern and microarray analyses revealed,
however, that the levels of endogenous ARE-containing mRNAs are not altered in T 
cells latently infected with HVS mutants lacking HSURs 1 and 2. HSUR 1 binds the 
destabilizing ARE-binding protein tristetraprolin induced following activation of
HVS-transformed T cells, but even in such stimulated cells, the levels of host
ARE-containing mRNAs are not altered by deletion of HSURs 1 and 2. Instead, HSUR 
1 itself is degraded by an ARE-dependent pathway in HVS-transformed T cells,
suggesting that HVS may take advantage of the host ARE-mediated mRNA decay
pathway to regulate HSUR expression. This is the first example of
posttranscriptional regulation of the expression of an Sm small nuclear RNA.

DOI: 10.1128/MCB.24.10.4522-4533.2004 
PMCID: PMC400482
PMID: 15121869  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2824. Cells Tissues Organs. 2004;176(4):187-94.

Apocrine glands in the eyelid of primates contribute to the ocular host defense.

Stoeckelhuber M(1), Stoeckelhuber BM, Welsch U.

Author information: 
(1)Anatomical Institute, Chair 2, University of Munich, Munich, Germany.
mstoecke@anat.med.uni-muenchem.de

Apocrine glands of Moll are regular components of primate eyelids. We studied the
distribution and localization of these glands in three different primate species,
the common marmoset, the rhesus monkey, and the hamadryas baboon. In addition, we
tested the primate glands of Moll with antibodies against antimicrobial proteins,
cytoskeletal proteins and the androgen receptor. The glands of Moll differ in
abundance and distribution in different monkeys. In the common marmoset, a
representative of the New World monkeys, Platyrrhini, the apocrine glands are
frequently found at the lid margin and in the overlying epidermis of the lid. In 
the rhesus monkey and the hamadryas baboon, representatives of Old World monkeys,
Catarrhini, apocrine glands are rarer and located predominantly at the margin of 
the lid. The immunohistochemical analysis indicates the presence of a variety of 
antimicrobial proteins, e.g. lysozyme, beta-defensin-2, adrenomedullin,
lactoferrin, and IgA, in these glands. Interestingly, there are basically no
androgen receptors in the nuclei of apocrine glands at the lid margin in all
three monkey species. In the common marmoset, however, androgen receptors are
found in apocrine glands of the overlying epidermis of the lid. We speculate that
the glands of Moll are derived from apocrine glands as found in the skin of the
entire body in New World monkeys which developed at the lid margins of higher
primates and humans into specialized glands secreting agents of host defense in
the eye.

Copyright 2004 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 10.1159/000077035 
PMID: 15118398  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

