

2826. J Bone Miner Metab. 2004;22(3):192-7.

Biochemical bone turnover markers are useful tools to assess changes in bone
metabolism in marmosets.

Angeliewa A(1), Budde M, Schlachter M, Hoyle NR, Bauss F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharma Research, Animal Husbandry, F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd.,
Basel, Switzerland.

This study was designed to investigate whether biochemical markers of bone
resorption and formation could be determined in the serum and urine of marmosets 
(Callithrix jacchus), using standard laboratory chemistry methods and
commercially available human kits. Consequently, the findings from this study
will indicate whether the techniques and kits could serve as appropriate tools
for assessing changes in bone turnover in this species. Two groups of animals (n 
= 12/group), consisting of a comparable number of young and old male and female
marmosets, were given either isotonic saline or a single dose of the
bisphosphonate ibandronate (0.1 mg/kg) s.c. in order to suppress bone turnover.
Blood and urine were collected at baseline and 5 days after administration.
Samples were analyzed for urinary (u) and serum (s) markers of bone formation
(serum osteocalcin [sOC], serum N-terminal crosslinks of human pro-collagen type 
I [sP1NP]) and bone resorption (urinary pyridinoline [uPYD], urinary
deoxypyridinoline [uDPD], serum C-terminal crosslinks of human collagen type I
(C-telopeptide) [sCTX]), intact serum parathyroid hormone (iPTH) and urinary
calcium and creatinine. Levels of all the markers of bone resorption and
formation decreased during the study period. As expected, the bone formation
markers decreased slightly less relative to the resorption markers. The most
sensitive markers were sCTX (-33%; P < or =0.001) for bone resorption, and sP1NP 
(-3%; P < or =0.05) for bone formation. Serum PTH levels increased by 8% ( P < or
=0.05), demonstrating a physiological reaction to prevent changes in serum
calcium. Although not all variables reached statistical significance within the
tested interval, the applied methods and kits were considered suitable for
evaluating bone turnover changes in marmosets. Thus, these methods and kits can
be utilized not only during the course of pharmacological investigations but also
as additional tools to assess the overall bone health of this species.

DOI: 10.1007/s00774-003-0469-8 
PMID: 15108060  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2827. Trends Mol Med. 2004 Feb;10(2):85-91.

Non-invasive measurement of brain damage in a primate model of multiple
sclerosis.

't Hart BA(1), Vogels J, Bauer J, Brok HP, Blezer E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biopharmaceutical Analysis, TNO Pharma, 3704 HE Zeist, The
Netherlands. hart@bprc.nl

Early recognition of whether a product has potential as a new therapy for
treating multiple sclerosis (MS) relies upon the quality of the animal models
used in the preclinical trials. The promising effects of new treatments in rodent
models of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) have rarely been
reproduced in patients suffering from MS. EAE in outbred marmoset monkeys,
Callithrix jacchus, is a valid new model, and might provide an experimental link 
between EAE in rodent models and human MS. Using magnetic resonance imaging
techniques similar to those used in patients suffering from MS pathological
abnormalities in the brain, white matter of the animal can be visualized and
quantified. Moreover, NMR spectroscopy, in combination with pattern recognition, 
offers an advanced uroscopic technique for the identification of biomarkers of
inflammatory demyelination.

DOI: 10.1016/j.molmed.2003.12.008 
PMID: 15102362  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

