

2827. Trends Mol Med. 2004 Feb;10(2):85-91.

Non-invasive measurement of brain damage in a primate model of multiple
sclerosis.

't Hart BA(1), Vogels J, Bauer J, Brok HP, Blezer E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biopharmaceutical Analysis, TNO Pharma, 3704 HE Zeist, The
Netherlands. hart@bprc.nl

Early recognition of whether a product has potential as a new therapy for
treating multiple sclerosis (MS) relies upon the quality of the animal models
used in the preclinical trials. The promising effects of new treatments in rodent
models of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) have rarely been
reproduced in patients suffering from MS. EAE in outbred marmoset monkeys,
Callithrix jacchus, is a valid new model, and might provide an experimental link 
between EAE in rodent models and human MS. Using magnetic resonance imaging
techniques similar to those used in patients suffering from MS pathological
abnormalities in the brain, white matter of the animal can be visualized and
quantified. Moreover, NMR spectroscopy, in combination with pattern recognition, 
offers an advanced uroscopic technique for the identification of biomarkers of
inflammatory demyelination.

DOI: 10.1016/j.molmed.2003.12.008 
PMID: 15102362  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2828. J Struct Biol. 2004 Jun;146(3):359-67.

Spatial mapping of collagen fibril organisation in primate cornea-an X-ray
diffraction investigation.

Boote C(1), Dennis S, Meek K.

Author information: 
(1)Structural Biophysics Group, School of Optometry and Vision Sciences, Cardiff 
University, Wales, UK. bootec@cf.ac.uk

New insights are presented into the collagenous structure of the primate cornea. 
Wide-angle X-ray diffraction was used to map the fibrillar arrangement and
distribution of collagen over three common marmoset corneas. The maps provide a
point of reference to help interpret data from pathological corneas or primate
models of refractive surgery. The results herein disclose a circum-corneal
annulus of highly aligned collagen, 0.5-1.5 mm wide, where the cornea and sclera 
fuse at the limbus; a feature similar to that observed in human tissue. As in
humans, the annulus is not uniform, varying in width, fibril angular spread, and 
collagen density around its circumference. However, more centrally the marmoset
cornea exhibits a preferred lamella orientation in which proportionally more
fibrils are oriented along the superior-inferior corneal meridian. This
observation is in striking contrast with the situation in human cornea, where
there is an orthogonal arrangement of preferentially aligned fibrils.
Investigation of a further 16 corneas confirmed that approximately 33% (+/-1%) (n
= 76) of fibrils in the central marmoset cornea lie within a 45 degrees sector of
the superior-inferior meridian. Implications for the mechanical and optical
properties of the cornea are discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jsb.2003.12.009 
PMID: 15099577  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

