

2831. J Neurophysiol. 2004 Aug;92(2):1067-76. Epub 2004 Apr 7.

Sense of taste in a New World monkey, the common marmoset. II. Link between
behavior and nerve activity.

Danilova V(1), Hellekant G.

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Animal Health and Biomedical Sciences, University of
Wisconsin-Madison, 1655 Linden Drive, Madison, WI 53706, USA.

In a previous study, we characterized the gustatory system of a New World monkey 
the common marmoset, Callithrix jacchus jacchus, with electrophysiological
techniques by recording from taste fibers of the chorda tympani proper (CT) and
glossopharyngeal (NG) nerves. Hierarchical cluster analysis identified three
clusters of taste fibers: S fibers, responding predominantly to sweeteners, Q
fibers, responding predominantly to bitter stimuli, and H fibers, responding
predominantly to acids. In this study, we employed two behavioral techniques, the
two-bottle preference (TBP) and conditioned taste aversion (CTA), to study the
taste of the compounds used in the previous electrophysiological study. The
results showed that compounds that did not stimulate any taste fibers were
neither preferred nor rejected. Compounds that activated only S fibers were
always preferred over water. When aversion to sucrose was created by the CTA
method, these compounds were rejected. Compounds that activated Q fibers were
rejected and consumed less than water. We studied the relationship between intake
and net response from S and Q fibers in the CT and NG nerves. Intake was measured
as a preference ratio in TBP test. The net response was defined as: (S(CT) +
S(NG)) - (Q(CT) + Q(NG)), where S(CT) + S(NG) denotes the sum of the responses in
S fibers of the CT and NG nerves. Similarly, Q(CT) + Q(NG) represents the sum of 
the responses in Q fibers of the CT and NG nerves. The relationship between
intake and the Net response was linear with a Pearson correlation coefficient
0.85. This study supports our hypothesis that intake is influenced by S and Q
fibers, where S fibers serve as a hedonically positive input and Q fibers as a
hedonically negative input.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.01183.2003 
PMID: 15071088  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2832. Anim Cogn. 2004 Apr;7(2):77-85. Epub 2003 Sep 16.

Testing for social learning and imitation in common marmosets, Callithrix
jacchus, using an artificial fruit.

Caldwell CA(1), Whiten A.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Social Learning and Cognitive Evolution and Scottish Primate
Research Group, University of St Andrews, KY16 9JU, St Andrews, Fife, Scotland.
C.A.Caldwell@exeter.ac.uk

We tested for social learning and imitation in common marmosets using an
artificial foraging task and trained conspecific demonstrators. We trained a
demonstrator marmoset to open an artificial fruit, providing a full demonstration
of the task to be learned. Another marmoset provided a partial demonstration,
controlling for stimulus enhancement effects, by eating food from the outside of 
the apparatus. We thus compared three observer groups, each consisting of four
animals: those that received the full demonstration, those that received the
partial demonstration, and a control group that saw no demonstration prior to
testing. Although none of the observer marmosets succeeded in opening the
artificial fruit during the test periods, there were clear effects of
demonstration type. Those that saw the full demonstration manipulated the
apparatus more overall, whereas those from the control group manipulated it the
least of the three groups. Those from the full-demonstration group also contacted
the particular parts of the artificial fruit that they had seen touched
(localised stimulus enhancement) to a greater extent than the other two groups.
There was also an interaction between the number of hand and mouth touches made
to the artificial fruit for the full- and partial-demonstration groups. Whether
or not these data represent evidence for imitation is discussed. We also propose 
that the clear differences between the groups suggest that social learning
mechanisms provide real benefits to these animals in terms of developing novel
food-processing skills analogous to the one presented here.

DOI: 10.1007/s10071-003-0192-9 
PMID: 15069606  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

