

2832. Anim Cogn. 2004 Apr;7(2):77-85. Epub 2003 Sep 16.

Testing for social learning and imitation in common marmosets, Callithrix
jacchus, using an artificial fruit.

Caldwell CA(1), Whiten A.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Social Learning and Cognitive Evolution and Scottish Primate
Research Group, University of St Andrews, KY16 9JU, St Andrews, Fife, Scotland.
C.A.Caldwell@exeter.ac.uk

We tested for social learning and imitation in common marmosets using an
artificial foraging task and trained conspecific demonstrators. We trained a
demonstrator marmoset to open an artificial fruit, providing a full demonstration
of the task to be learned. Another marmoset provided a partial demonstration,
controlling for stimulus enhancement effects, by eating food from the outside of 
the apparatus. We thus compared three observer groups, each consisting of four
animals: those that received the full demonstration, those that received the
partial demonstration, and a control group that saw no demonstration prior to
testing. Although none of the observer marmosets succeeded in opening the
artificial fruit during the test periods, there were clear effects of
demonstration type. Those that saw the full demonstration manipulated the
apparatus more overall, whereas those from the control group manipulated it the
least of the three groups. Those from the full-demonstration group also contacted
the particular parts of the artificial fruit that they had seen touched
(localised stimulus enhancement) to a greater extent than the other two groups.
There was also an interaction between the number of hand and mouth touches made
to the artificial fruit for the full- and partial-demonstration groups. Whether
or not these data represent evidence for imitation is discussed. We also propose 
that the clear differences between the groups suggest that social learning
mechanisms provide real benefits to these animals in terms of developing novel
food-processing skills analogous to the one presented here.

DOI: 10.1007/s10071-003-0192-9 
PMID: 15069606  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2833. J Med Primatol. 2004 Apr;33(2):98-104.

Penile vibratory stimulation in the marmoset monkey: a practical alternative to
electro-ejaculation, yielding ejaculates of enhanced quality.

Schneiders A(1), Sonksen J, Hodges JK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Reproductive Biology, German Primate Centre, Goettingen,
Germany.

The availability of sufficient amounts of spermatozoa of high quality is one of
the main limiting factors in reproductive research and development of
reproductive technologies in marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus). Penile
vibrostimulation (PVS) has been successfully used in semen collection in the
squirrel monkey but with poor success rate in the marmoset. We report here on an 
improved protocol for PVS with a success rate of almost 90%. Ejaculates obtained 
by PVS were of enhanced quality compared with those obtained by rectal probe
electro-ejaculation (RPE). PVS ejaculates contained on average three to fourfold 
higher numbers of total and motile spermatozoa. Assessment of sperm kinematics
using computer-assisted sperm analysis indicated that there are also functional
differences between spermatozoa collected by PVS and RPE. Marmoset spermatozoa in
samples obtained by RPE swim in a more convoluted manner compared with those
obtained by PVS.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0684.2004.00058.x 
PMID: 15061722  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

