

2833. J Med Primatol. 2004 Apr;33(2):98-104.

Penile vibratory stimulation in the marmoset monkey: a practical alternative to
electro-ejaculation, yielding ejaculates of enhanced quality.

Schneiders A(1), Sonksen J, Hodges JK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Reproductive Biology, German Primate Centre, Goettingen,
Germany.

The availability of sufficient amounts of spermatozoa of high quality is one of
the main limiting factors in reproductive research and development of
reproductive technologies in marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus). Penile
vibrostimulation (PVS) has been successfully used in semen collection in the
squirrel monkey but with poor success rate in the marmoset. We report here on an 
improved protocol for PVS with a success rate of almost 90%. Ejaculates obtained 
by PVS were of enhanced quality compared with those obtained by rectal probe
electro-ejaculation (RPE). PVS ejaculates contained on average three to fourfold 
higher numbers of total and motile spermatozoa. Assessment of sperm kinematics
using computer-assisted sperm analysis indicated that there are also functional
differences between spermatozoa collected by PVS and RPE. Marmoset spermatozoa in
samples obtained by RPE swim in a more convoluted manner compared with those
obtained by PVS.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0684.2004.00058.x 
PMID: 15061722  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2834. Cereb Cortex. 2004 Jun;14(6):595-609. Epub 2004 Mar 28.

Areal and subcellular localization of the ubiquitous alkaline phosphatase in the 
primate cerebral cortex: evidence for a role in neurotransmission.

Fonta C(1), Négyessy L, Renaud L, Barone P.

Author information: 
(1)Cerveau et Cognition, CNRS-UMR 5549 Université P. Sabatier, Toulouse, France.

The ubiquitous enzyme TNAP (tissue non-specific alkaline phosphatase) is found in
numerous tissues such as liver, kidney and bone, but little attention has been
paid to its expression and role in the brain. Observations in TNAP-KO mice, which
analyzed the role of this enzyme in osteogenesis, had suggested that TNAP might
be involved in GABA neurotransmission. Apart from its presence in endothelial
cells, here we show a specific and strong alkaline phosphatase (AP) activity in
the neuropile, matching the pattern of thalamo-cortical innervation in layer 4 of
the primate sensory cortices (visual, auditory and somatosensory). Such a pattern
is also evident in rodents and carnivores, making AP a powerful marker of primary
sensory areas. Remarkably, AP activity is regulated by sensory experience as
demonstrated by monocular deprivation paradigms in monkeys. The areal and laminar
distribution of AP activity matches that of the GAD(65), the GABA synthesizing
enzyme found in presynatic terminals. As our electron microscopic investigations 
indicate that AP is found at the neuronal membranes and in synaptic contacts, it 
is proposed that the neuronal AP isoform (NAP), may be a key enzyme in regulating
neurotransmission and could therefore play an important role in developmental
plasticity and activity-dependent cortical functions.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhh021 
PMID: 15054075  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

