

2834. Cereb Cortex. 2004 Jun;14(6):595-609. Epub 2004 Mar 28.

Areal and subcellular localization of the ubiquitous alkaline phosphatase in the 
primate cerebral cortex: evidence for a role in neurotransmission.

Fonta C(1), Négyessy L, Renaud L, Barone P.

Author information: 
(1)Cerveau et Cognition, CNRS-UMR 5549 Université P. Sabatier, Toulouse, France.

The ubiquitous enzyme TNAP (tissue non-specific alkaline phosphatase) is found in
numerous tissues such as liver, kidney and bone, but little attention has been
paid to its expression and role in the brain. Observations in TNAP-KO mice, which
analyzed the role of this enzyme in osteogenesis, had suggested that TNAP might
be involved in GABA neurotransmission. Apart from its presence in endothelial
cells, here we show a specific and strong alkaline phosphatase (AP) activity in
the neuropile, matching the pattern of thalamo-cortical innervation in layer 4 of
the primate sensory cortices (visual, auditory and somatosensory). Such a pattern
is also evident in rodents and carnivores, making AP a powerful marker of primary
sensory areas. Remarkably, AP activity is regulated by sensory experience as
demonstrated by monocular deprivation paradigms in monkeys. The areal and laminar
distribution of AP activity matches that of the GAD(65), the GABA synthesizing
enzyme found in presynatic terminals. As our electron microscopic investigations 
indicate that AP is found at the neuronal membranes and in synaptic contacts, it 
is proposed that the neuronal AP isoform (NAP), may be a key enzyme in regulating
neurotransmission and could therefore play an important role in developmental
plasticity and activity-dependent cortical functions.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhh021 
PMID: 15054075  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2835. Contemp Top Lab Anim Sci. 2004 Mar;43(2):28-31.

Cytologic assessment of the vaginal epithelium in the common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus): a preliminary new approach to reproductive screening.

Gluckman TL(1), Walz SE, Schultz-Darken N, Bolton ID.

Author information: 
(1)School of Veterinary Medicine, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison,
Wisconsin, USA.

The application of vaginal cytology in defining reproductive events is a widely
accepted and applied diagnostic tool in many species. Here we present a
preliminary approach to recognizing a correlation between changes in vaginal
epithelial cytology and circulating plasma progesterone in the common marmoset,
Callithrix jacchus, such that vaginal cytology could be diagnostically
appropriate for reproductive management. We assessed six captive-born adult
female common marmosets for the duration of one complete estrus cycle. Cytologic 
samples, collected by vaginal swab, and blood for plasma progesterone
concentration were collected twice weekly. Cytologic samples were blindly
assessed, and vaginal epithelial maturation was defined on the basis of the
karyopyknotic index (KPI). In the three consistently cycling females (cj0328,
cj0732, and cj0678), a marked increase in KPI corresponded with rising plasma
progesterone levels, which subsequently decreased throughout the duration of
follicular phase. The remaining three females who had previously irregular estrus
cycles (cj0608, cj0680, cj0724) demonstrated irregularity in their progesterone
profiles which correlated with inconsistent KPIs. Although KPI is not a very
sensitive single sampling indicator of ovulation, evaluating changes in cytologic
morphology over time aid in predicting the timing of an ovulatory event. Our
results suggest that vaginal cytology can be an effective alternative to blood
sampling for reproductive management of the common marmoset.


PMID: 15053505  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

