

2835. Contemp Top Lab Anim Sci. 2004 Mar;43(2):28-31.

Cytologic assessment of the vaginal epithelium in the common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus): a preliminary new approach to reproductive screening.

Gluckman TL(1), Walz SE, Schultz-Darken N, Bolton ID.

Author information: 
(1)School of Veterinary Medicine, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison,
Wisconsin, USA.

The application of vaginal cytology in defining reproductive events is a widely
accepted and applied diagnostic tool in many species. Here we present a
preliminary approach to recognizing a correlation between changes in vaginal
epithelial cytology and circulating plasma progesterone in the common marmoset,
Callithrix jacchus, such that vaginal cytology could be diagnostically
appropriate for reproductive management. We assessed six captive-born adult
female common marmosets for the duration of one complete estrus cycle. Cytologic 
samples, collected by vaginal swab, and blood for plasma progesterone
concentration were collected twice weekly. Cytologic samples were blindly
assessed, and vaginal epithelial maturation was defined on the basis of the
karyopyknotic index (KPI). In the three consistently cycling females (cj0328,
cj0732, and cj0678), a marked increase in KPI corresponded with rising plasma
progesterone levels, which subsequently decreased throughout the duration of
follicular phase. The remaining three females who had previously irregular estrus
cycles (cj0608, cj0680, cj0724) demonstrated irregularity in their progesterone
profiles which correlated with inconsistent KPIs. Although KPI is not a very
sensitive single sampling indicator of ovulation, evaluating changes in cytologic
morphology over time aid in predicting the timing of an ovulatory event. Our
results suggest that vaginal cytology can be an effective alternative to blood
sampling for reproductive management of the common marmoset.


PMID: 15053505  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2836. J Physiol. 2004 May 15;557(Pt 1):229-45. Epub 2004 Mar 26.

Chromatic and spatial properties of parvocellular cells in the lateral geniculate
nucleus of the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Blessing EM(1), Solomon SG, Hashemi-Nezhad M, Morris BJ, Martin PR.

Author information: 
(1)National Vision Research Institute of Australia, Cnr Keppel and Cardigan
Streets, Carlton, VIC 3053, Australia.

The parvocellular (PC) division of the afferent visual pathway is considered to
carry neuronal signals which underlie the red-green dimension of colour vision as
well as high-resolution spatial vision. In order to understand the origin of
these signals, and the way in which they are combined, the responses of PC cells 
in dichromatic ('red-green colour-blind') and trichromatic marmosets were
compared. Visual stimuli included coloured and achromatic gratings, and spatially
uniform red and green lights presented at varying temporal phases and
frequencies.The sensitivity of PC cells to red-green chromatic modulation was
found to depend primarily on the spectral separation between the medium- and
long-wavelength-sensitive cone pigments (20 or 7 nm) in the two trichromatic
marmoset phenotypes studied. The temporal frequency dependence of chromatic
sensitivity was consistent with centre-surround interactions. Some evidence for
chromatic selectivity was seen in peripheral PC cells. The receptive field
dimensions of parvocellular cells were similar in dichromatic and trichromatic
animals, but the achromatic contrast sensitivity of cells was slightly higher (by
about 30%) in dichromats than in trichromats. These data support the hypothesis
that the primary role of the PC is to transmit high-acuity spatial signals, with 
red-green opponent signals appearing as an additional response dimension in
trichromatic animals.

DOI: 10.1113/jphysiol.2003.058065 
PMCID: PMC1665047
PMID: 15047769  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

