

2839. Behav Brain Res. 2004 Apr 2;150(1-2):55-63.

Dissociation of hemi-spatial and hemi-motor impairments in a unilateral primate
model of Parkinson's disease.

Milton AL(1), Marshall JW, Cummings RM, Baker HF, Ridley RM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, Downing Street, Cambridge CB3 2EB, UK.

Monkeys with unilateral lesions of nigrostriatal dopamine projections were tested
on a series of spatial tasks. One task, in which monkeys were required to use one
or the other arm to retrieve food rewards from different positions, allowed
separate assessment of the use of each arm in each hemi-space in order to
distinguish hemi-spatial and hemi-motor impairments. The lesioned monkeys
exhibited a persistent neglect of contralesional space when using either arm
which could be dissociated from a motor impairment in the contralesional arm
alone. Another task allowed free use of either arm across peri-personal space and
demonstrated an ipsilesional bias in the monkeys' self-determined attention
(orientation) to a task which they were trying to perform. It is argued that the 
tendency for monkeys with this lesion to rotate ipsilesionally is due to an
ipsilesional deviation of the 'centre of interest' (determined by telencephalic
circuitry) relative to 'straight ahead' (determined by brainstem circuitry). The 
dopamine projections may contribute to cortico-subcortical circuits which
determine the spatial layout of mental representation, attention and intention.
The results in this primate model of unilateral Parkinson's disease (PD) support 
the view that patients with left-sided Parkinsonian symptoms exhibit a unilateral
deficit in spatial mental representation as well as their well-recognised motor
symptoms. Patients with bilateral Parkinson's symptoms may exhibit bilateral
deficits in mental representation.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-4328(03)00231-6 
PMID: 15033279  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2840. Brain Res Cogn Brain Res. 2004 Apr;19(2):123-37.

Performance of the marmoset monkey on computerized tasks of attention and working
memory.

Spinelli S(1), Pennanen L, Dettling AC, Feldon J, Higgins GA, Pryce CR.

Author information: 
(1)Behavioural Neurobiology Laboratory, Swiss Federal Institute of Technology
Zurich, Schorenstrasse 16, CH-8603 Schwerzenbach, Switzerland.

The CAmbridge Neuropsychological Test Automated Battery (CANTAB) is a
computerised battery of neuropsychological tests presented as stimuli on a
touch-sensitive computer screen that has been used to assess a wide range of
cognitive functions in neuropsychiatric patients, healthy volunteers, and species
of non-human primate, primarily the rhesus macaque. The common marmoset is a
small-bodied, tractable simian primate that breeds well under laboratory
conditions. This primate has been quite extensively studied in terms of its
abilities and limitations with respect to appetitive cognitive conditioning.
However, the CANTAB versions of sustained/divided attention and working memory
tasks have to-date not been studied in the marmoset. Here we describe adult
marmoset performance on the CANTAB five-choice serial reaction time task, a
delayed match-to-position task, and a task derived from the CANTAB visuo-spatial 
paired associates learning task that constituted two, concurrent delayed
match-to-position tasks. The acquisition and stable longitudinal performance of
these tasks provide strong evidence that the marmoset, in addition to the
macaque, can be the species of choice for CANTAB-based drug and lesion studies of
cognitive function, using tasks similar to those deployed in the study of human
cognition and diagnosis of neuropsychiatric disorders.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cogbrainres.2003.11.007 
PMID: 15019709  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

