

2848. Am J Primatol. 2004 Feb;62(2):107-14.

Saliva sampling to assess cortisol levels in unrestrained common marmosets and
the effect of behavioral stress.

Cross N(1), Pines MK, Rogers LJ.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Neuroscience and Animal Behaviour, School of Biological, Biomedical
and Molecular Sciences, University of New England, Armidale, NSW, Australia.

We report a method for taking saliva samples from unrestrained, captive marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus) to assess levels of free cortisol. Saliva samples can be
obtained reliably, without any habituation, by encouraging the marmosets to lick 
and chew a cotton-wool bud coated in banana. Saliva is thus left on the bud. We
also tested sweetened fruit-drink crystals and a number of other substances, but 
none of these attracted all of the marmosets, and even flavors that were
effective once soon lost their attraction. The presence of banana in the samples 
collected was found to lower the measured concentration of cortisol; however, as 
shown in samples taken with and without the banana coating on the bud, it did so 
in a linear and consistent way, and did not vary significantly among subjects.
Therefore, a simple conversion factor could be applied to correct for the
presence of banana. A first experiment showed that the marmosets exhibited a rise
in salivary cortisol levels in response to social isolation. A second experiment 
showed elevation of cortisol during a period when the marmosets were disturbed by
increased human activity and noise levels in the building in which they were
housed. Hence, this method of saliva sampling is a convenient, noninvasive means 
of assessing cortisol levels in marmosets.

Copyright 2004 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20005 
PMID: 14983468  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2849. Am J Primatol. 2004 Feb;62(2):83-94.

Relations among birth condition, maternal condition, and postnatal growth in
captive common marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus).

Tardif SD(1), Bales KL.

Author information: 
(1)Southwest National Primate Research Center, San Antonio, Texas 78245-0549,
USA. stardif@icarus.sfbr.org

The present study characterizes the relations among maternal condition, litter
size, birth condition, and growth in body weight for a population of common
marmosets. The subjects of the study were marmosets born into a single colony
between 1994 and 2001. Three sets of analyses were conducted to answer the
following questions: 1) Is there a relationship between litter size, maternal
condition, and birth condition? In the study population, maternal body weight,
maternal age, litter size, and birth condition were related in a complex fashion.
Birth weight and prenatal long-bone growth, as reflected in knee-heel length,
were both related to maternal age, with older mothers supporting higher prenatal 
growth. Age and maternal condition appeared to interact as determinants of
long-bone growth, as the combination of older and larger mothers resulted in
significantly longer knee-heel lengths in their offspring. 2) Is there a
relationship between birth condition or maternal condition and subsequent growth 
or final adult size? The early growth rate in this population was similar to
early growth rates reported for three different marmoset colonies, suggesting
that early growth may be relatively inflexible in this species. However, within
this population, the variation that did occur in early growth rate was related to
birth weight and maternal weight. Later growth and adult weight were related to
birth weight and litter size: small twin infants displayed slower later growth
rates and were smaller as adults than twins that began life at a higher birth
weight, while the birth weight of triplets was not related to adult size. In
these marmosets, small infants that were the result of increased litter size
differed from small infants whose small birth size resulted from other factors.
This reinforces the proposal that the causes of low birth weight will be relevant
to the development of the marmoset as a model of prenatal environmental effects.

Copyright 2004 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20009 
PMID: 14983466  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

