

2851. J Mol Endocrinol. 2004 Feb;32(1):115-28.

Chorionic gonadotrophin beta subunit mRNA but not luteinising hormone beta
subunit mRNA is expressed in the pituitary of the common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus).

Müller T(1), Simoni M, Pekel E, Luetjens CM, Chandolia R, Amato F, Norman RJ,
Gromoll J.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Reproductive Medicine of the University, Domagkstrasse 11,
D-48129 Münster, Germany.

The pituitary gonadotrophins LH and FSH are responsible for regulation of
gametogenesis in the testis and ovary. Chorionic gonadotrophin (CG), a third
closely related glycoprotein hormone derived by gene duplication of the LHbeta
gene and secreted by the placenta in primates, is essential for the rescue of the
corpus luteum and maintenance of pregnancy. We have recently shown that marmoset 
(m) CGbeta mRNA is highly expressed in the pituitary of the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus) and that LH is less active than human CG in activating the
human LH receptor lacking exon 10. To investigate further which gonadotrophin is 
the actual ligand of the LH receptor (LHR) of the marmoset monkey that naturally 
lacks exon 10, we identified and characterised the genomic organisation of the
mLHbeta gene and its expression. Intergenic PCR amplification of the region
encompassing the mLHbeta and the mCGbeta genes revealed that, surprisingly,
mCGbeta is located 20 kbp upstream of the LHbeta gene, whereas in other species
the intergenic distance is approximately 2-3 kbp. Sequence analysis of the
mLHbeta coding region showed 70% identity to mCGbeta and 90% identity to human
LHbeta at the amino acid level. Both gonadotrophin beta subunits are present at
the genomic level, but RT-PCR of pituitary and placental total RNA using specific
oligonucleotides for mCGbeta and mLHbeta showed high expression of mCGbeta mRNA
in both tissues, whereas LHbeta was expressed neither in the pituitary nor in the
placenta. Thus mLHbeta mRNA is lacking in the marmoset pituitary.
Immunohistochemistry of marmoset pituitaries showed that mCG was confined to the 
gonadotrophes, and partly co-localised in cells stained positively for FSH.
Western blot analysis confirmed the presence of mCG in the pituitary. Northern
blot analysis using mCGbeta as a probe displayed one transcript of 0.7 kb in the 
pituitary and detected two transcripts of 1.1 kb and 2 kb in the marmoset
placenta. Our results suggest that, in the common marmoset, CG is the only
gonadotrophin with luteinising function that is present in the pituitary. We
postulate that, owing to an unknown mutational event in evolution, expression of 
mLH was completely abolished, and CG - which, unlike LH, acts normally even when 
exon 10 is missing from the LHR - took over its function.

DOI: 10.1677/jme.0.0320115 
PMID: 14765996  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2852. J Comp Neurol. 2004 Feb 16;469(4):494-506.

Synaptic connectivity of the diffuse bipolar cell type DB6 in the inner plexiform
layer of primate retina.

Jusuf PR(1), Lee SC, Grünert U.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology F13 and Institute for Biomedical Research, The
University of Sydney, New South Wales 2006, Australia.

Diffuse bipolar cells in primate retina receive synaptic input from multiple
cones and provide output to ganglion cells. Diffuse bipolar cells can be
subdivided into six types (DB1-DB6) according to the stratification of their axon
terminals in the inner plexiform layer, but their synaptic connectivity in the
inner plexiform layer is not well understood. Here the stratification and
synaptic connectivity of DB6 axon terminals were studied in the retinae of New
World (marmoset) and Old World (macaque) monkeys. Immunohistochemical markers
were applied to retinal sections. The sections were analyzed by confocal and
deconvolution light microscopy as well as electron microscopy. The DB6 cells were
identified with antibodies against CD15; rod bipolar cells were identified with
antibodies against protein kinase Calpha (PKCalpha); and AII amacrine cells were 
identified with antibodies against calretinin. The axons of DB6 and rod bipolar
cells occupy distinct regions in stratum 5 of the inner plexiform layer. The
distal processes of calretinin-labeled AII cells are usually closely associated
with rod bipolar axons but sometimes also with DB6 axons. Pre-embedding
immunoelectron microscopy showed that the vast majority (over 86%) of the
synaptic output of DB6 cells is onto amacrine cell processes, whereas less than
14% goes to ganglion cell processes. In double-labeled preparations DB6 axons
occasionally made output onto calretinin-labeled amacrine processes. Thus it is
possible that AII cells receive some input from DB6 cells.

Copyright 2004 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.11027 
PMID: 14755531  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

