

2854. Virus Res. 2004 Feb;99(2):187-92.

Phylogenetic relationships in the Lymphocryptovirus genus of the
Gammaherpesvirinae.

Gerner CS(1), Dolan A, McGeoch DJ.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council Virology Unit, Institute of Virology, Church Street, 
G11 5JR, Glasgow, UK.

Complete DNA sequences were determined for the glycoprotein B (gB) genes of four 
viruses from the genus Lymphocryptovirus, whose hosts had been assigned as
baboon, orangutan, chimpanzee and gorilla. Together with published sequences for 
the gB genes of three lymphocryptoviruses, namely the human pathogen Epstein-Barr
virus (EBV), a rhesus monkey virus and a marmoset virus, the sequences were used 
to investigate evolutionary relationships in the genus. The chimpanzee and
orangutan viruses' sequences were found to be so close that it is unlikely both
represent natural infections in these hosts. Phylogenetic analyses showed that
the New World marmoset virus lineage formed a sister clade to that of the Old
World viruses, consistent with a cospeciational separation. Within the Old World 
virus group, resolution of branching pattern was incomplete, and suggestive of a 
complex history. In particular, it was inferred that separation of the EBV
lineage from that of the gorilla virus plus the chimpanzee/orangutan virus may
have predated separation of the present day host species.

DOI: 10.1016/j.virusres.2003.10.011 
PMID: 14749184  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2855. Reproduction. 2003 Dec;126(6):775-82.

Hormonal and behavioural changes during the mating season and pregnancy in Alpine
marmots (Marmota marmota).

Exner C(1), Wehrend A, Hospes R, Einspanier A, Hoffmann B, Heldmaier G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology Animal Physiology, Philipps University of Marburg, Karl 
von Frisch Str. 8, 35043 Marburg, Germany. exner@staff.uni-marburg.de

Under natural and artificial conditions, Alpine marmots (Marmota marmota) are
true hibernators with a single breeding season starting immediately upon
emergence from hibernation. Over three mating and breeding seasons, hormonal and 
mating patterns of colony-housed reproductive female marmots were investigated
after exit from hibernation. Blood samples were taken for progesterone, oestrogen
and relaxin assays with parallel ultrasound investigations. Copulations were
observed from the first day after exit from hibernation until the end of
pregnancy and reached a maximum number on day 37 before parturition. Mating
behaviour was observed between the dominant animals as well as between dominant
and subdominant group members. In the first week after exit from hibernation,
plasma progesterone was detected in half of the animals. During the third week,
progesterone concentrations were significantly higher in pregnant than in
non-pregnant animals or animals that had aborted. Immediately after emerging from
hibernation, all successfully mated females showed higher serum relaxin values
than non-successfully mated animals and this increase in relaxin concentration
lasted until the end of pregnancy. The total concentration of oestrogen did not
differ between pregnant and non-pregnant animals. The results of this study
indicate that progesterone and relaxin might be useful indicators of early
pregnancy in Alpine marmots.

DOI: 10.1530/rep.0.1260775 
PMID: 14748696  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

