

2855. Reproduction. 2003 Dec;126(6):775-82.

Hormonal and behavioural changes during the mating season and pregnancy in Alpine
marmots (Marmota marmota).

Exner C(1), Wehrend A, Hospes R, Einspanier A, Hoffmann B, Heldmaier G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology Animal Physiology, Philipps University of Marburg, Karl 
von Frisch Str. 8, 35043 Marburg, Germany. exner@staff.uni-marburg.de

Under natural and artificial conditions, Alpine marmots (Marmota marmota) are
true hibernators with a single breeding season starting immediately upon
emergence from hibernation. Over three mating and breeding seasons, hormonal and 
mating patterns of colony-housed reproductive female marmots were investigated
after exit from hibernation. Blood samples were taken for progesterone, oestrogen
and relaxin assays with parallel ultrasound investigations. Copulations were
observed from the first day after exit from hibernation until the end of
pregnancy and reached a maximum number on day 37 before parturition. Mating
behaviour was observed between the dominant animals as well as between dominant
and subdominant group members. In the first week after exit from hibernation,
plasma progesterone was detected in half of the animals. During the third week,
progesterone concentrations were significantly higher in pregnant than in
non-pregnant animals or animals that had aborted. Immediately after emerging from
hibernation, all successfully mated females showed higher serum relaxin values
than non-successfully mated animals and this increase in relaxin concentration
lasted until the end of pregnancy. The total concentration of oestrogen did not
differ between pregnant and non-pregnant animals. The results of this study
indicate that progesterone and relaxin might be useful indicators of early
pregnancy in Alpine marmots.

DOI: 10.1530/rep.0.1260775 
PMID: 14748696  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2856. J Virol. 2004 Feb;78(4):2062-71.

Development of a GB virus B marmoset model and its validation with a novel series
of hepatitis C virus NS3 protease inhibitors.

Bright H(1), Carroll AR, Watts PA, Fenton RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Virology, GlaxoSmithKline Medicines Research Centre, Stevenage, 
Hertfordshire SG1 2NY, United Kingdom. Helen.X.Bright@gsk.com

GB virus B (GBV-B), a flavivirus closely related to HCV, has previously been
shown to infect and replicate to high titers in tamarins (Saguinus sp.). This
study describes the use of GBV-B infection and replication in the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus) for the successful development and validation of a surrogate
animal model for hepatitis C virus (HCV). Infection of marmosets with GBV-B
produced a viremia that peaked at 10(8) to 10(9) genome copies/ml for a period of
40 to 60 days followed by viral clearance at 60 to 80 days postinfection. Passage
of the initial tamarin-derived GBV-B in marmosets produced an infectious stock
that gave a more reproducible and consistent infection in the marmoset. Titration
of the virus stocks in vivo indicated that they contained 1 infectious unit for
every 1,000 genome copies. Cultures of primary marmoset hepatocytes were also
successfully infected with GBV-B, with high levels of virus detected in
supernatants and cells for up to 14 days postinfection. Treatment of
GBV-B-infected hepatocyte cultures with a novel class of HCV protease inhibitor
(pyrrolidine 5,5 trans-lactams) reduced viral levels by more than 2 logs.
Treatment of GBV-B-infected marmosets with one such inhibitor resulted in a 3-log
drop in serum viral titer over 4 days of therapy. These studies provide the first
demonstration of the in vivo efficacy of a small-molecule inhibitor for HCV in an
animal model and illustrate the utility of GBV-B as a surrogate animal model
system for HCV.

DOI: 10.1128/jvi.78.4.2062-2071.2004 
PMCID: PMC369465
PMID: 14747571  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

