

2857. J Appl Toxicol. 2004 Jan-Feb;24(1):59-68.

Low-level exposure of guinea pigs and marmosets to sarin vapour in air:
lowest-observable-adverse-effect level (LOAEL) for miosis.

van Helden HP(1), Trap HC, Kuijpers WC, Oostdijk JP, Benschop HP, Langenberg JP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Countermeasures, TNO Prins Maurits Laboratory, PO Box
45, 2280 AA Rijswijk, The Netherlands. helden@pml.tno.nl

The purpose of this pilot study was to indicate, for low-level exposure of
conscious guinea pigs and marmoset monkeys to sarin vapour in air, the
lowest-observable-adverse-effect level (LOAEL) of sarin for miosis. This is the
concentration x time (C.t) value (t = 5 h) of exposure at which miosis becomes
significant. The ratio of pupil and iris diameters, measured on digital
photographs taken on-line during exposure, was calculated as a measure for
miosis. The exposure concentrations were in the range 7-150 microg x m(-3) and
the exposure times needed to achieve significant miosis were in the range 10-300 
min. Both vehicle- and pyridostigmine-pretreated animals were used in the
experiments. The latter pretreatment resulted in ca. 30% inhibition of
erythrocyte acetylcholinesterase in both species. In vehicle-pretreated guinea
pigs and marmosets the pupil size was decreased significantly (P < 0.05) at sarin
doses of 1.8 +/- 0.3 and 2.5 +/- 0.8 mg x min x m(-3), respectively. In
pyridostigmine-pretreated guinea pigs and marmosets the pupil size was affected
significantly (P < 0.05) at 1.8 +/- 0.5 and 3.0 +/- 0.8 mg x min x m(-3),
respectively. Evidently there is no significant influence of pyridostigmine
pretreatment on the LOAEL. These data were addressed in light of the recommended 
occupational and detection limits for sarin vapour in air. It was concluded that 
miosis will occur during low-level sarin exposure at levels that are not
detectable by the currently fielded alarm systems, assuming that humans are as
sensitive for sarin vapour in air as guinea pigs and marmosets.

Copyright 2004 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/jat.948 
PMID: 14745848  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2858. J Magn Reson Imaging. 2004 Feb;19(2):168-75.

Activation of neural pathways associated with sexual arousal in non-human
primates.

Ferris CF(1), Snowdon CT, King JA, Sullivan JM Jr, Ziegler TE, Olson DP,
Schultz-Darken NJ, Tannenbaum PL, Ludwig R, Wu Z, Einspanier A, Vaughan JT, Duong
TQ.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Comparative Neuroimaging, University of Massachusetts Medical
School, Worcester, Massachusetts 01655, USA. craig.ferris@umassmed.edu

PURPOSE: To evaluate brain activity associated with sexual arousal, fully
conscious male marmoset monkeys were imaged during presentation of odors that
naturally elicit high levels of sexual activity and sexual motivation.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Male monkeys were lightly anesthetized, secured in a head
and body restrainer with a built-in birdcage resonator and positioned in a
9.4-Tesla spectrometer. When fully conscious, monkeys were presented with the
odors of a novel receptive female or an ovariectomized monkey. Both odors were
presented during an imaging trial and the presentation of odors was
counterbalanced. Significant changes in both positive and negative BOLD signal
were mapped and averaged.
RESULTS: Periovulatory odors significantly increased positive BOLD signal in
several cortical areas: the striatum, hippocampus, septum, periaqueductal gray,
and cerebellum, in comparison with odors from ovariectomized monkeys. Conversely,
negative BOLD signal was significantly increased in the temporal cortex,
cingulate cortex, putamen, hippocampus, substantia nigra, medial preoptic area,
and cerebellum with presentation of odors from ovariectomized marmosets as
compared to periovulatory odors. A common neural circuit comprising the temporal 
and cingulate cortices, putamen, hippocampus, medial preoptic area, and
cerebellum shared both the positive BOLD response to periovulatory odors and the 
negative BOLD response to odors of ovariectomized females.
CONCLUSION: These data suggest the odor-driven enhancement and suppression of
sexual arousal affect neuronal activity in many of the same general brain areas. 
These areas included not only those associated with sexual activity, but also
areas involved in emotional processing and reward.

Copyright 2004 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jmri.10456 
PMCID: PMC1525212
PMID: 14745749  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

