

2862. Biochim Biophys Acta. 2004 Jan 20;1688(1):10-7.

Role of lipid interactions in autoimmune demyelination.

Ohler B(1), Graf K, Bragg R, Lemons T, Coe R, Genain C, Israelachvili J, Husted
C.

Author information: 
(1)Center for the Study of Neurodegenerative Disorders, Neuroscience Research
Institute, Biological Sciences 2, University of California, Santa Barbara, CA
93106-5060, USA.

A morphological transformation involving loss of adhesion between myelin lamellae
and formation of myelin vesicles has been described as a mechanism for
demyelination in multiple sclerosis and marmoset experimental allergic
encephalomyelitis (EAE). Although protein interactions are involved in
maintaining normal myelin structure, we describe here how lipids contribute to
myelin stability and how lipid changes in EAE, including increases in lipid
polyunsaturation and negatively charged phosphatidylserine (PS), promote
demyelination. Three physico-chemical techniques were used to identify these
changes: (1) Langmuir monolayer isotherms indicated that EAE white matter lipids 
were significantly more "expanded" (fluid) than controls. (2) NMR spectroscopy
indicated that EAE myelin lipids were more polyunsaturated than controls. (3)
High-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) with an evaporative light
scattering detector indicated increased PS in EAE compared to controls, while
sphingomyelin (SM), sulfatides and phosphatidylcholine (PC) were decreased. We
present a physical model considering electrostatic, van der Waals and undulation 
forces to quantify the effect of these changes on myelin adhesion at the
extracellular interface. Taken together, the isotherm, NMR, HPLC and modeling
results support a mechanism for autoimmune demyelination whereby the composition 
of myelin lipids is altered in a manner that increases myelin fluidity, decreases
myelin adhesion, increases membrane curvature, and promotes vesiculation.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbadis.2003.10.001 
PMID: 14732476  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2863. J Vet Med Sci. 2003 Dec;65(12):1307-11.

Distribution of protein gene product 9.5-immunopositive and
NADPH-diaphorase-positive neurons in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus)
accessory olfactory bulb.

Nakajima T(1), Tanioka Y, Taniguchi K.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Biomedical Control, Research Institute for Electronic Science,
Hokkaido University, Sapporo, Japan.

The principal center of the accessory olfactory system is the accessory olfactory
bulb (AOB). In primates, simians are divided into two groups, New and Old World
monkeys, and the AOB is present in only New World monkeys. The common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus) is a species of New World monkey. Although the morphology of
the common marmoset AOB has been demonstrated, the distribution patterns of the
mitral/tufted and granule cells of the AOB remain unclear. In the present study, 
therefore, the distribution of the mitral/tufted and granule cells in the common 
marmoset AOB was examined using two histochemical markers including
immuno-staining for protein gene product (PGP) 9.5 and NADPH-diaphorase staining.
The vomeronasal nerves, gomeruli and mitral/tufted cells showed PGP
9.5-immunoreactivity. The mitral/tufted cells were arranged in only one or two
rows along the margin of the glomerular layer to form the mitral/tufted cell
layer (MTL). Since the mitral/tufted cells occurred sparsely in the common
marmoset, the MTL was illegible. NADPH-diaphorase reactivity was primarily
detected in the rostral and caudal areas of the AOB. In these areas, granule
cells showed NADPH-diaphorase reactivity. Since the granule cells were sparse,
the common marmoset AOB displayed less-developed granule cell layer. Although the
functional significance of the AOB remains to be solved in the common marmoset,
small-sized and less-laminated AOB may show that sexual behavior of the common
marmoset has lesser dependence on the accessory olfactory system.

DOI: 10.1292/jvms.65.1307 
PMID: 14709818  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

