

2863. J Vet Med Sci. 2003 Dec;65(12):1307-11.

Distribution of protein gene product 9.5-immunopositive and
NADPH-diaphorase-positive neurons in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus)
accessory olfactory bulb.

Nakajima T(1), Tanioka Y, Taniguchi K.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Biomedical Control, Research Institute for Electronic Science,
Hokkaido University, Sapporo, Japan.

The principal center of the accessory olfactory system is the accessory olfactory
bulb (AOB). In primates, simians are divided into two groups, New and Old World
monkeys, and the AOB is present in only New World monkeys. The common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus) is a species of New World monkey. Although the morphology of
the common marmoset AOB has been demonstrated, the distribution patterns of the
mitral/tufted and granule cells of the AOB remain unclear. In the present study, 
therefore, the distribution of the mitral/tufted and granule cells in the common 
marmoset AOB was examined using two histochemical markers including
immuno-staining for protein gene product (PGP) 9.5 and NADPH-diaphorase staining.
The vomeronasal nerves, gomeruli and mitral/tufted cells showed PGP
9.5-immunoreactivity. The mitral/tufted cells were arranged in only one or two
rows along the margin of the glomerular layer to form the mitral/tufted cell
layer (MTL). Since the mitral/tufted cells occurred sparsely in the common
marmoset, the MTL was illegible. NADPH-diaphorase reactivity was primarily
detected in the rostral and caudal areas of the AOB. In these areas, granule
cells showed NADPH-diaphorase reactivity. Since the granule cells were sparse,
the common marmoset AOB displayed less-developed granule cell layer. Although the
functional significance of the AOB remains to be solved in the common marmoset,
small-sized and less-laminated AOB may show that sexual behavior of the common
marmoset has lesser dependence on the accessory olfactory system.

DOI: 10.1292/jvms.65.1307 
PMID: 14709818  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2864. Genomics. 2004 Feb;83(2):193-202.

Plasticity of human chromosome 3 during primate evolution.

Tsend-Ayush E(1), Grützner F, Yue Y, Grossmann B, Hänsel U, Sudbrak R, Haaf T.

Author information: 
(1)Comparative Genomics Group, Research School of Biological Sciences, Australian
National University, Canberra ACT 2601, Australia.

Comparative mapping of more than 100 region-specific clones from human chromosome
3 in Bornean and Sumatran orangutans, siamang gibbon, and Old and New World
monkeys allowed us to reconstruct ancestral simian and hominoid chromosomes. A
single paracentric inversion derives chromosome 1 of the Old World monkey
Presbytis cristata from the simian ancestor. In the New World monkey Callithrix
geoffroyi and siamang, the ancestor diverged on multiple chromosomes, through
utilizing different breakpoints. One shared and two independent inversions derive
Bornean orangutan 2 and human 3, implying that neither Bornean orangutans nor
humans have conserved the ancestral chromosome form. The inversions, fissions,
and translocations in the five species analyzed involve at least 14 different
evolutionary breakpoints along the entire length of human 3; however, particular 
regions appear to be more susceptible to chromosome reshuffling. The ancestral
pericentromeric region has promoted both large-scale and micro-rearrangements.
Small segments homologous to human 3q11.2 and 3q21.2 were repositioned
intrachromosomally independent of the surrounding markers in the orangutan
lineage. Breakage and rearrangement of the human 3p12.3 region were associated
with extensive intragenomic duplications at multiple orangutan and gibbon
subtelomeric sites. We propose that new chromosomes and genomes arise through
large-scale rearrangements of evolutionarily conserved genomic building blocks
and additional duplication, amplification, and/or repositioning of inherently
unstable smaller DNA segments contained within them.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ygeno.2003.08.012 
PMID: 14706448  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

