

2869. Synapse. 2004 Mar 15;51(4):249-69.

Detailed distribution of neuropeptide FF receptors (NPFF1 and NPFF2) in the rat, 
mouse, octodon, rabbit, guinea pig, and marmoset monkey brains: a comparative
autoradiographic study.

Gouardères C(1), Puget A, Zajac JM.

Author information: 
(1)Institut de Pharmacologie et de Biologie Structurale, CNRS UMR 5089, 31077
Toulouse Cedex, France.

The distribution of neuropeptide FF receptors (NPFF(1) and NPFF(2)) was analyzed 
throughout the central nervous system of rodents (rat, mouse, Octodon degus, and 
guinea pig), rabbit, and marmoset monkey brains, representing three orders of
mammals. Quantitative in vitro receptor autoradiography with [(125)I]EYF
([(125)I]EYWSLAAPQRF-NH(2)) and [(125)I]YVP ([(125)I]YVPNLPQRF-NH(2)) as specific
radioligands for NPFF(2) and NPFF(1) receptors, respectively, was used. The
NPFF(2) receptor is predominantly expressed in all species, except in the central
nervous system of Octodon degus, in which it is undetectable. The density of the 
NPFF(1) subtype is low in rat and mice, moderate in octodon, rabbit, and monkey, 
and relatively high in the guinea pig. The present study reveals prominent
species differences in the NPFF receptors expression in the brain. The
distribution pattern of NPFF(2) receptors in the diencephalon and the superficial
layers of the spinal cord is consistent with a hypothesized potential role for
NPFF in the modulation of sensory input and opioid analgesia. In contrast, the
constant presence of NPFF(1) receptors in the septum, the nucleus of the tractus 
solitarius, and the hypothalamus suggest its participation in neuroendocrine
functions.

Copyright 2003 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/syn.10305 
PMID: 14696013  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2870. J Exp Biol. 2004 Jan;207(Pt 3):443-8.

Acoustic communication in noise: regulation of call characteristics in a New
World monkey.

Brumm H(1), Voss K, Köllmer I, Todt D.

Author information: 
(1)Freie Universität Berlin, Institut für Biologie, Verhaltensbiologie,
Haderslebener Strasse 9, 12163 Berlin, Germany. brumm@zedat.fu-berlin.de

This study on common marmosets Callithrix jacchus is the first to examine
noise-dependent mechanisms of vocal plasticity in a New World monkey. Since
acoustic communication can be considerably impaired by environmental noise, some 
animals have evolved adaptations to counteract its masking effects. The studied
marmosets increased the sound level of their spontaneous calls in response to
increased levels of white noise broadcast to them. Possibly, such noise-dependent
adjustment of vocal amplitude serves to maintain a specific signal-to-noise ratio
that is favourable for signal production. Concurrently, the adjustment of vocal
amplitude can maintain a given active space for communication. In contrast to
some bird species, no noise-induced increase in the number of syllables per call 
series could be found, showing that an increased serial redundancy of vocal
signals was not used to communicate under noisy conditions. Finally, we examined 
a possible noise-dependent prolongation of vocal signals. This approach was
guided by the findings of perceptional studies, which suggest an increased
detection probability of prolonged signals in noise by temporal summation.
Marmosets indeed increased the duration of their call syllables along with
increasing background noise levels. This is the first evidence of such mechanism 
of vocal plasticity in an animal communication system.

DOI: 10.1242/jeb.00768 
PMID: 14691092  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

