

2870. J Exp Biol. 2004 Jan;207(Pt 3):443-8.

Acoustic communication in noise: regulation of call characteristics in a New
World monkey.

Brumm H(1), Voss K, Köllmer I, Todt D.

Author information: 
(1)Freie Universität Berlin, Institut für Biologie, Verhaltensbiologie,
Haderslebener Strasse 9, 12163 Berlin, Germany. brumm@zedat.fu-berlin.de

This study on common marmosets Callithrix jacchus is the first to examine
noise-dependent mechanisms of vocal plasticity in a New World monkey. Since
acoustic communication can be considerably impaired by environmental noise, some 
animals have evolved adaptations to counteract its masking effects. The studied
marmosets increased the sound level of their spontaneous calls in response to
increased levels of white noise broadcast to them. Possibly, such noise-dependent
adjustment of vocal amplitude serves to maintain a specific signal-to-noise ratio
that is favourable for signal production. Concurrently, the adjustment of vocal
amplitude can maintain a given active space for communication. In contrast to
some bird species, no noise-induced increase in the number of syllables per call 
series could be found, showing that an increased serial redundancy of vocal
signals was not used to communicate under noisy conditions. Finally, we examined 
a possible noise-dependent prolongation of vocal signals. This approach was
guided by the findings of perceptional studies, which suggest an increased
detection probability of prolonged signals in noise by temporal summation.
Marmosets indeed increased the duration of their call syllables along with
increasing background noise levels. This is the first evidence of such mechanism 
of vocal plasticity in an animal communication system.

DOI: 10.1242/jeb.00768 
PMID: 14691092  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2871. J Cereb Blood Flow Metab. 2004 Jan;24(1):24-41.

A new primate model of focal stroke: endothelin-1-induced middle cerebral artery 
occlusion and reperfusion in the common marmoset.

Virley D(1), Hadingham SJ, Roberts JC, Farnfield B, Elliott H, Whelan G, Golder
J, David C, Parsons AA, Hunter AJ.

Author information: 
(1)Neurology and GI CEDD, GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals, Harlow, Essex, United 
Kingdom. David_J_Virley@gsk.com

The purpose of the present set of studies was to develop a new primate model of
focal ischemia with reperfusion for long-term functional assessment in the common
marmoset. Initially, the cerebral vascular anatomy of the marmoset was
interrogated by Araldite-cast and ink-perfusion methods to determine the
feasibility of an intravascular surgical approach. The methods showed that the
internal carotid artery was highly tortuous in its passage, precluding the
development of an extracranial method of inducing temporary middle cerebral
artery occlusion in the marmoset. A pilot dose-response study investigated an
intracranial approach of topically applying endothelin-1 (ET-1) to the M2 portion
of the middle cerebral artery in a small sample of marmosets for up to 6 hours (n
= 2 or 3 per group). Dose-dependent reductions in middle cerebral artery vessel
caliber followed by gradual reperfusion were inversely related to increases in
corrected lesion volume after ET-1 treatment, relative to vehicle control
application. Finally, the functional consequences of ET-1-induced lesions to the 
M2 vascular territory were assessed up to 24 hours after surgery using the
optimal dose established in the pilot study (2.5 nmol/25 microL). ET-1-treated
marmosets (n = 4) showed marked contralateral motor deficits in grip strength and
retrieval of food rewards and contralateral sensory/motor neglect towards tactile
stimulation, relative to their ipsilateral side and vehicle-treated marmosets (n 
= 4). Strong correlations were shown between contralateral impairments and
histopathologic parameters, which revealed unilateral putamen and cortical damage
to the middle cerebral artery territory. No deficits were shown on general
mobility, and self-care was promptly resumed in ET-1 marmosets after surgery.
These results show that this novel model of ischemia with reperfusion in the
marmoset has the potential to assess long-term function and to gauge the efficacy
of novel therapeutic strategies targeted for clinical stroke.

DOI: 10.1097/01.WCB.0000095801.98378.4A 
PMID: 14688614  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

