

2872. Clin Exp Pharmacol Physiol. 2003 Nov;30(11):841-4.

Experimental therapeutics of Parkinson's disease.

Henderson JM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Prince of Wales Medical Research Institute, Randwick, NSW, Australia.
jasmine@med.usyd.edu.au

1. The loss of central dopamine, which characterises Parkinson's disease, led to 
the main pharmacological strategy for treatment, namely levodopa, a
dopamine-replacement therapy. Several years after treatment, the majority of
patients experience dose-limiting side-effects and loss of symptom control. There
is a resurgence of interest in neurosurgery for treating the Parkinson's disease,
particularly in new techniques targeting the subthalamic nucleus (STN), which is 
overactive in Parkinson's disease and contributes to symptom development. 2. We
performed unilateral subthalamotomy (lesioning the subthalamic nucleus via the
toxin N-methyl-d-aspartate) in marmosets and rats with experimentally induced
parkinsonism (induced using the toxin 6-hydroxydopamine). A range of similar
behaviours common to both rodents and primates were evaluated before and after
each type of surgery. Post-mortem histology was used to confirm the lesions. We
also provide details of a case with Parkinson's disease who underwent
high-frequency bilateral stimulation of the STN and in whom we analysed the STN
post-mortem. 3. Unilateral subthalamotomy improved akinesia in parkinsonian
primates. However, both monkeys and rodents showed postural abnormalities. The
patient who underwent bilateral high-frequency stimulation showed improvement of 
akinesia and other disease symptoms and no postural abnormalities. Post-mortem
analysis did not demonstrate substantial damage of the STN as a result of the
electrodes. 4. Although unilateral subthalamotomy improves some aspects of
parkinsonism, it causes postural abnormalities in animal models of Parkinson's
disease. Because bilateral high-frequency STN stimulation improves disease
symptoms, is reversible and is not reported to induce postural side-effects, it
may be a better surgical therapy for Parkinson's disease than lesioning the STN.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1440-1681.2003.03922.x 
PMID: 14678247  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2873. Am J Phys Anthropol. 2004 Jan;123(1):11-22.

Systematics and evolution of the Jacchus group of marmosets (Platyrrhini).

Marroig G(1), Cropp S, Cheverud JM.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Biologia Celular e Genética, Instituto de Biologia,
Universidade do Estado do Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil 20550-013.
Gmarroig@ib.usp.br

Interspecific differentiation and geographic variation patterns in 39 skull
traits of eastern Brazilian marmosets are analyzed. Eastern Callithrix taxa are
distinct morphologically, and no evidence of intergradation among taxa is
observed. Instead, there are sharp, stepped morphological boundaries among taxa, 
consistent with species-level distinction. The morphological similarity cluster
diagram obtained from Mahalanobis distances is different from available molecular
trees, and the general picture emerging is that the eastern Callithrix taxa
should be considered as good species arising recently in South American history. 
In particular, C. kuhlii is morphologically distinct from other marmoset taxa,
including C. geoffroyi and C. penicillata, which were previously hypothesized to 
be the parental populations that formed C. kuhlii by hybridization. Furthermore, 
C. kuhlii populations from southeastern Bahia do not overlap morphologically with
any C. penicillata population, including the upper São Francisco River
populations that display skin colors and pelage patterns to some extent similar
to true Kuhli's marmosets. There is a negative, though insignificant, correlation
between the morphological distance matrix and a Mahalanobis distance matrix
estimated from nine climatic variables, a pattern opposite to that expected under
a parapatric speciation model. This result, together with the lack of clinal
variation in skull traits, suggests that an allopatric model of speciation might 
best explain eastern marmoset diversification.

Copyright 2002 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.10146 
PMID: 14669232  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

