

2875. J Neurosci. 2003 Dec 3;23(35):11189-201.

Lesions of the orbitofrontal but not medial prefrontal cortex disrupt conditioned
reinforcement in primates.

Pears A(1), Parkinson JA, Hopewell L, Everitt BJ, Roberts AC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, CB2 3DY, United
Kingdom.

The ventromedial prefrontal cortex (PFC) is implicated in affective and motivated
behaviors. Damage to this region, which includes the orbitofrontal cortex as well
as ventral sectors of medial PFC, causes profound changes in emotional and social
behavior, including impairments in certain aspects of decision making. One
reinforcement mechanism that may well contribute to these behaviors is
conditioned reinforcement, whereby previously neutral stimuli in the environment,
by virtue of their association with primary rewards, take on reinforcing value
and come to support instrumental action. Conditioned reinforcers are powerful
determinants of behavior and can maintain responding over protracted periods of
time in the absence of and potentially in conflict with primary reinforcers. It
has already been shown that conditioned reinforcement is dependent on the
amygdala, and because the amygdala projects to both the orbitofrontal cortex and 
the medial PFC, the present study determined whether conditioned reinforcement
was also dependent on one or the other of these prefrontal regions. Comparison of
the behavioral effects of selective excitotoxic lesions of the PFC in the common 
marmoset revealed that orbitofrontal but not medial PFC lesions disrupted two
distinct measures of conditioned reinforcement: (1) acquisition of a new response
and (2) sensitivity to conditioned stimulus omission on a second-order schedule. 
In contrast, the orbitofrontal lesion did not affect sensitivity to primary
reinforcement as measured by responding on a progressive-ratio schedule and a
home cage consumption test. Together, these findings demonstrate the critical and
specific involvement of the orbitofrontal cortex but not the medial PFC in
conditioned reinforcement.


PMCID: PMC6741044
PMID: 14657178  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2876. Comp Med. 2003 Oct;53(5):539-44.

XY female marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Sanchez-Morgado JM(1), Haworth R, Morris TH.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory Animal Science, GlaxoSmithkline, The Frythe, Welwyn, Herts, AL6
9AR, United Kingdom.

A marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) with atypical external genitalia was
phenotypically and genetically characterized. Testosterone concentration
correlated with that of female marmosets. Externally, there was only one opening 
for the urethra. Internal genitalia were characteristic of those of female
marmosets, and consisted of ovaries, with follicles in various developmental
stages, and uterus. Microscopically, a normal vaginal structure was found. An
XX/XY chimerism and high steroid hormone values are normally found in common
marmosets. Genetic analysis was used for in vivo determination of sex. The
Y-linked zinc finger protein gene (ZFY) last intron, and sex-determining region Y
gene (SRY) exon were found by use of polymerase chain reaction and posterior
sequencing analyses, indicating that this marmoset had Y-linked chromosome
sequences. Normal SRY exons can, therefore, be associated with female internal
sexual organs in marmosets; this may be the first XY female described in
non-human primates.


PMID: 14655998  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

