

2882. Exp Neurol. 2003 Nov;184(1):536-48.

Recombinant adeno-associated viral vector (rAAV) delivery of GDNF provides
protection against 6-OHDA lesion in the common marmoset monkey (Callithrix
jacchus).

Eslamboli A(1), Cummings RM, Ridley RM, Baker HF, Muzyczka N, Burger C, Mandel
RJ, Kirik D, Annett LE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, Downing Street, University of
Cambridge, CB2 3EB, Cambridge, UK. ae228@hermes.cam.ac.uk

Comment in
    Exp Neurol. 2004 Jan;185(1):1-6.

Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) has shown potential as a
treatment for Parkinson's disease. Recombinant adeno-associated viral vectors
expressing the GDNF protein (rAAV-GDNF) have been used in rodent models of
Parkinson's disease to promote functional regeneration after 6-OHDA lesions of
the nigrostriatal system. The goal of the present study was to assess the
anatomical and functional efficacy of rAAV-GDNF in the common marmoset monkey
(Callithrix jacchus). rAAV-GDNF was injected into the striatum and substantia
nigra 4 weeks prior to a unilateral 6-OHDA lesion of the nigrostriatal bundle.
Forty percent of the dopamine cells in the lesioned substantia nigra of the
rAAV-GDNF-treated monkeys survived, compared with 21% in the untreated monkeys.
Fine dopaminergic fibres were observed microscopically in the injected striatum
of some rAAV-GDNF-treated monkeys, suggesting that rAAV-GDNF treatment may have
prevented, at least in part, the loss of dopaminergic innervation of the
striatum. Protection of dopamine cells and striatal fibre innervation was
associated with amelioration of the lesion-induced behavioural deficits.
rAAV-GDNF-treated monkeys showed partial or complete protection not only in the
amphetamine and apomorphine rotation but also in head position and the
parkinsonian disability rating scale. Therefore, our study provides evidence for 
the behavioural and anatomical efficacy of GDNF delivered via an rAAV vector as a
possible treatment for Parkinson's disease.

DOI: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2003.08.007 
PMID: 14637123  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2883. Reprod Biol Endocrinol. 2003 Nov 24;1:114.

Immunoexpression of the relaxin receptor LGR7 in breast and uterine tissues of
humans and primates.

Ivell R(1), Balvers M, Pohnke Y, Telgmann R, Bartsch O, Milde-Langosch K,
Bamberger AM, Einspanier A.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Hormone and Fertility Research at the University of Hamburg,
Falkenried 88, 20251 Hamburg, Germany. ivell@ihf.de

BACKGROUND: The receptor for the peptide hormone relaxin has recently been
identified as the heptahelical G-protein coupled receptor, LGR7. In order to
generate molecular tools with which to characterize both in vivo and in vitro
expression of this receptor in human and primate tissues, specific monotypic
antibodies have been generated and applied to a preliminary analysis of human and
primate female reproductive tissues.
METHODS: Three peptide sequences were identified from the proposed open reading
frame of the cloned LGR7 receptor gene, representing both extracellular and
intracellular domains. Two to three rabbits were immunized for each epitope, and 
the resulting sera subjected to a systematic validation using cultured cells
transiently transfected with a receptor-expressing gene construct, or appropriate
control constructs.
RESULTS: Human and monkey (marmoset, macaque) endometrium showed consistent and
specific immunostaining in the stromal cells close to glands. Staining appeared
to be more intense in the luteal phase of the cycle. Weak immunostaining was also
evident in the endometrial epithelial cells of the marmoset. A myoma in one
patient exhibited strong immunostaining in the circumscribing connective tissue. 
Uterine expression was supported by RT-PCR results from cultured primary
endometrial and myometrial cells. Human breast tissue (healthy and tumors)
consistently indicated specific immunostaining in the interstitial connective
(stromal) tissue within the glands, but not in epithelial or myoepithelial cells,
except in some tumors, where a few epithelial and tumor cells also showed weak
epitope expression.
CONCLUSIONS: Using validated monotypic antibodies recognizing different epitopes 
of the LGR7 receptor, and from different immunized animals, and in different
primate species, a consistent pattern of LGR7 expression was observed in the
stromal (connective tissue) cells of the endometrium and breast, consistent also 
with the known physiology of the relaxin hormone.

DOI: 10.1186/1477-7827-1-114 
PMCID: PMC293425
PMID: 14633277  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

