

2895. Comp Med. 2003 Aug;53(4):360-3.

Sample collection and restraint techniques used for common marmosets (Callithrix 
jacchus).

Schultz-Darken NJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)National Primate Research Center of the University of Wisconsin-Madison, 1220 
Capitol Court, Madison, Wisconsin 53715-1299, USA.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is a small-bodied, adaptable New World
primate from secondary forests in Brazil that is used in various types of
research, such as reproductive biology, neuroendocrinology, behavioral research, 
neuroscience, infectious disease, and drug development. Because of their small
body size, adaptability to a variety of conditions, unique physiologic
characteristics, family social structure, and calm demeanor, they have become the
primate of choice for certain research areas. However, because of their small
body size, the amount and type of samples that can be obtained from them can
prove to be challenging. The objective of the study reported here is to review
some techniques developed for obtaining samples or data from marmoset monkeys in 
a variety of research settings and includes restraint methods that work well for 
the type of sample collection required.


PMID: 14524411  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2896. Comp Med. 2003 Aug;53(4):351-9.

Husbandry, handling, and nutrition for marmosets.

Layne DG(1), Power RA.

Author information: 
(1)Southwest National Primate Research Center, PO Box 760549, San Antonio, Texas 
78245-0549, USA.

Marmosets, especially Callithrix jacchus, have become an established part of the 
laboratory animal community. Information on marmoset life history, behavior, and 
diet acquired from experience with natural and captive habitats has increased,
but the early information from workers with colonies, principally those of
tamarins, has led to some common perceptions about how to house, handle, and
especially, feed callitrichids that may not apply to marmoset requirements. The
availability of commercially produced, almost-complete base diet components and a
wider variety of cage construction materials, combined with the recent emphasis
on the integration of engineering and performance standards for housing, have
made captive life and the implementation of research requirements better for the 
animals and the people that work with them. We will review some of the routine
aspects of husbandry, handling, and nutrition for marmoset monkeys maintained in 
a research setting.


PMID: 14524410  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

