

2896. Comp Med. 2003 Aug;53(4):351-9.

Husbandry, handling, and nutrition for marmosets.

Layne DG(1), Power RA.

Author information: 
(1)Southwest National Primate Research Center, PO Box 760549, San Antonio, Texas 
78245-0549, USA.

Marmosets, especially Callithrix jacchus, have become an established part of the 
laboratory animal community. Information on marmoset life history, behavior, and 
diet acquired from experience with natural and captive habitats has increased,
but the early information from workers with colonies, principally those of
tamarins, has led to some common perceptions about how to house, handle, and
especially, feed callitrichids that may not apply to marmoset requirements. The
availability of commercially produced, almost-complete base diet components and a
wider variety of cage construction materials, combined with the recent emphasis
on the integration of engineering and performance standards for housing, have
made captive life and the implementation of research requirements better for the 
animals and the people that work with them. We will review some of the routine
aspects of husbandry, handling, and nutrition for marmoset monkeys maintained in 
a research setting.


PMID: 14524410  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2897. Comp Med. 2003 Aug;53(4):339-50.

Aspects of common marmoset basic biology and life history important for
biomedical research.

Abbott DH(1), Barnett DK, Colman RJ, Yamamoto ME, Schultz-Darken NJ.

Author information: 
(1)Wisconsin Primate Research Center, Department of Ob/Gyn, University of
Wisconsin, 1223 Capitol Court, Madison, Wisconsin 53715, USA.

While common marmosets are increasingly used as alternative primate models in
biomedical research, their life history, specialized behavior and unique
physiology are not well known. This paper describes important marmoset attributes
that are particularly relevant for biomedical research, including reproduction,
neurobiology, immunology, endocrine signaling, obesity and aging, in addition to 
fetal and postnatal development. While common marmosets exhibit characteristic
anthropoid primate traits, they clearly differ from Old World primates and humans
in a variety of functions, including reproduction, endocrine signaling and
immunology. These differences, however, permit the use of common marmosets in
unconventional research strategies targeted on human pathology.


PMID: 14524409  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

