

2897. Comp Med. 2003 Aug;53(4):339-50.

Aspects of common marmoset basic biology and life history important for
biomedical research.

Abbott DH(1), Barnett DK, Colman RJ, Yamamoto ME, Schultz-Darken NJ.

Author information: 
(1)Wisconsin Primate Research Center, Department of Ob/Gyn, University of
Wisconsin, 1223 Capitol Court, Madison, Wisconsin 53715, USA.

While common marmosets are increasingly used as alternative primate models in
biomedical research, their life history, specialized behavior and unique
physiology are not well known. This paper describes important marmoset attributes
that are particularly relevant for biomedical research, including reproduction,
neurobiology, immunology, endocrine signaling, obesity and aging, in addition to 
fetal and postnatal development. While common marmosets exhibit characteristic
anthropoid primate traits, they clearly differ from Old World primates and humans
in a variety of functions, including reproduction, endocrine signaling and
immunology. These differences, however, permit the use of common marmosets in
unconventional research strategies targeted on human pathology.


PMID: 14524409  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2898. J Neurophysiol. 2004 Jan;91(1):301-13. Epub 2003 Oct 1.

Information content of auditory cortical responses to time-varying acoustic
stimuli.

Lu T(1), Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.

The present study explores the issue of cortical coding by spike count and timing
using statistical and information theoretic methods. We have shown in previous
studies that neurons in the auditory cortex of awake primates have an abundance
of sustained discharges that could represent time-varying signals by temporal
discharge patterns or mean firing rates. In particular, we found that a
subpopulation of neurons can encode rapidly occurring sounds, such as a click
train, with discharges that are not synchronized to individual stimulus events,
suggesting a temporal-to-rate transformation. We investigated whether there were 
stimulus-specific temporal patterns embedded in these seemingly random spike
times. Furthermore, we quantitatively analyzed the precision of spike timing at
stimulus onset and during ongoing acoustic stimulation. The main findings are the
following. 1) Temporal and rate codes may operate at separate stimulus domains or
encode the same stimulus domain in parallel via different neuronal populations.
2) Spike timing was crucial to encode stimulus periodicity in "synchronized"
neurons. 3) "Nonsynchronized" neurons showed little stimulus-specific spike
timing information in their responses to time-varying signals. Such responses
therefore represent processed (instead of preserved) information in the auditory 
cortex. And 4) spike timing on the occurrence of acoustic events was more precise
at the first event than at successive ones and more precise with sparsely
distributed events (longer time intervals between events) than with densely
packed events. These results indicate that auditory cortical neurons mark sparse 
acoustic events (or onsets) with precise spike timing and transform rapidly
occurring acoustic events into firing rate-based representations.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00022.2003 
PMID: 14523081  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

