

2898. J Neurophysiol. 2004 Jan;91(1):301-13. Epub 2003 Oct 1.

Information content of auditory cortical responses to time-varying acoustic
stimuli.

Lu T(1), Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.

The present study explores the issue of cortical coding by spike count and timing
using statistical and information theoretic methods. We have shown in previous
studies that neurons in the auditory cortex of awake primates have an abundance
of sustained discharges that could represent time-varying signals by temporal
discharge patterns or mean firing rates. In particular, we found that a
subpopulation of neurons can encode rapidly occurring sounds, such as a click
train, with discharges that are not synchronized to individual stimulus events,
suggesting a temporal-to-rate transformation. We investigated whether there were 
stimulus-specific temporal patterns embedded in these seemingly random spike
times. Furthermore, we quantitatively analyzed the precision of spike timing at
stimulus onset and during ongoing acoustic stimulation. The main findings are the
following. 1) Temporal and rate codes may operate at separate stimulus domains or
encode the same stimulus domain in parallel via different neuronal populations.
2) Spike timing was crucial to encode stimulus periodicity in "synchronized"
neurons. 3) "Nonsynchronized" neurons showed little stimulus-specific spike
timing information in their responses to time-varying signals. Such responses
therefore represent processed (instead of preserved) information in the auditory 
cortex. And 4) spike timing on the occurrence of acoustic events was more precise
at the first event than at successive ones and more precise with sparsely
distributed events (longer time intervals between events) than with densely
packed events. These results indicate that auditory cortical neurons mark sparse 
acoustic events (or onsets) with precise spike timing and transform rapidly
occurring acoustic events into firing rate-based representations.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00022.2003 
PMID: 14523081  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2899. Neuroscience. 2003;121(2):307-14.

Dehydroepiandrosterone 7-hydroxylase CYP7B: predominant expression in primate
hippocampus and reduced expression in Alzheimer's disease.

Yau JL(1), Rasmuson S, Andrew R, Graham M, Noble J, Olsson T, Fuchs E, Lathe R,
Seckl JR.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Medicine Centre, Western General Hospital, Edinburgh EH4 2XU, UK.
joyce.yau@ed.ac.uk

Neurosteroids such as dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA), pregnenolone and
17beta-estradiol are synthesized by cytochrome P450s from endogenous cholesterol.
We previously reported a new cytochrome P450 enzyme, CYP7B, highly expressed in
rat and mouse brain that metabolizes DHEA and related steroids by hydroxylation
at the 7alpha position. Such 7-hydroxylation can enhance DHEA bioactivity in
vivo. Here we show that the reaction is conserved across mammalian species: in
addition to mouse and rat, DHEA hydroxylation activity was present in brain
extracts from sheep, marmoset and human. Northern blotting using a human CYP7B
complementary deoxyribonucleic acid (cDNA) probe confirmed the presence of CYP7B 
mRNA in marmoset and human hippocampus; CYP7B mRNA was present in marmoset
cerebellum and brainstem, with lower levels in hypothalamus and cortex. In situ
hybridization to human brain revealed higher levels of CYP7B mRNA in the
hippocampus than in cerebellum, cortex, or other brain regions. We also measured 
CYP7B expression in Alzheimer's disease (AD). CYP7B mRNA was significantly
decreased (approximately 50% decline; P<0.05) in dentate neurons from AD subjects
compared with controls. A decline in CYP7B activity may contribute the loss of
effects of DHEA with ageing and perhaps to the pathophysiology of AD.

DOI: 10.1016/s0306-4522(03)00438-x 
PMID: 14521990  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

