

2903. Hum Reprod. 2003 Oct;18(10):2110-7.

Role of the neonatal period of pituitary-testicular activity in germ cell
proliferation and differentiation in the primate testis.

Sharpe RM(1), Fraser HM, Brougham MF, McKinnell C, Morris KD, Kelnar CJ, Wallace 
WH, Walker M.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Human Reproductive Sciences Unit, Centre for Reproductive Biology, The
Chancellor's Building, University of Edinburgh, 49 Little France Crescent,
Edinburgh, EH16 4SB. r.sharpe@hrsu.mrc.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: The neonatal period of pituitary-testicular activity (NPTA) in human 
males has been hypothesized to play a role in germ cell proliferation and
differentiation and to be defective in cryptorchid testes. The present study was 
carried out to establish in the marmoset if suppression of the NPTA, by treatment
with a GnRH antagonist, results in impaired germ cell proliferation and/or
differentiation.
METHODS: Comparison of germ cell (GC) numbers and differentiation from gonocytes 
to pre-spermatogonia and spermatogonia, at birth (in controls) and at the end of 
the NPTA in marmoset co-twin males treated from birth to age 14 weeks with
vehicle or GnRH antagonist.
RESULTS: From birth to age 18-24 weeks, testis weight increased approximately
5-fold and GC number approximately 10-fold, including increased numbers of
gonocytes and pre-spermatogonia and the first appearance of spermatogonia.
Treatment with GnRH antagonist attenuated the increase in testis weight and GC
numbers, but the effect was only partial (24-30% reduction), and the relative
proportions of gonocytes, pre-spermatogonia and spermatogonia in the GnRH
antagonist-treated group were unchanged from control values.
CONCLUSIONS: The NPTA plays only a minor, if any, role in GC proliferation and
differentiation in the marmoset. The changes in GnRH antagonist-treated co-twins 
may reflect impaired GC survival due to withdrawal of gonadotrophin support for
Sertoli cells. These findings do not support a pivotal role for the NPTA in
neonatal GC development in primates.

DOI: 10.1093/humrep/deg413 
PMID: 14507830  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2904. Anat Embryol (Berl). 2003 Sep;207(2):149-55. Epub 2003 Aug 30.

Midbrain connections of the olivary pretectal nucleus in the marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus): implications for the pupil light reflex pathway.

Clarke RJ(1), Blanks RH, Giolli RA.

Author information: 
(1)New Jersey Neuroscience Institute of JFK Medical Center and Seton Hall
University, 65 James Street, PO Box 3059, Edison, NJ 08818, USA. clarkero@shu.edu

Midbrain projections of the pretectal olivary nucleus (PON) were studied in the
marmoset, a New World primate. The fluorescent retrograde tracers Fluoro-Gold
(FG) and Fast Blue (FB) were injected into the Edinger-Westphal (EW) nucleus and 
the lateral terminal nucleus (LTN), respectively. EW nucleus injections resulted 
in retrograde labeling of significant numbers of FG-positive neurons of the PON
as well as a small number of cells in the LTN. LTN injections led to labeling of 
a population of singly-labeled cells seen dispersed through the larger population
of FG-labeled somata within the contralateral PON. The ipsilateral PON was devoid
of FB-labeled somata, whereas the adjacent nucleus of the optic tract (NOT)
contained FB-labeled cells. These findings show that a large number of PON
neurons project directly to the oculomotor complex. Additionally, the study shows
the presence of a separate population of PON neurons projecting to the
contralateral LTN. This, combined with our earlier observation that LTN neurons
project to the EW nucleus in the marmoset (see main text for reference), lends
support to the presence of separate direct and indirect pupillary light reflex
pathways from the PON to the nucleus of EW.

DOI: 10.1007/s00429-003-0339-0 
PMID: 14505052  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

