

2907. J Virol. 2003 Sep;77(18):9943-50.

Efficient isolation of wild strains of canine distemper virus in Vero cells
expressing canine SLAM (CD150) and their adaptability to marmoset B95a cells.

Seki F(1), Ono N, Yamaguchi R, Yanagi Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Virology, Faculty of Medicine, Kyushu University, Fukuoka
812-8582, Japan.

We have previously shown that canine signaling lymphocyte activation molecule
(SLAM; also known as CD150) acts as a cellular receptor for canine distemper
virus (CDV). In this study, we established Vero cells stably expressing canine
SLAM (Vero.DogSLAMtag cells). Viruses were isolated in Vero.DogSLAMtag cells one 
day after inoculation with spleen samples from five out of seven dogs with
distemper. By contrast, virus isolation with reportedly sensitive marmoset B95a
cells was only successful from three diseased animals at 7 to 10 days after
inoculation, and no virus was recovered from any dogs when Vero cells were used
for isolation. The CDV strain isolated in Vero.DogSLAMtag cells did not cause
cytopathic effects in B95a and human SLAM-expressing Vero cells, whereas the
strain isolated in B95a cells from the same dog did so in canine or human
SLAM-expressing Vero cells as well as B95a cells. There were two amino acid
differences in the hemagglutinin sequence between these strains. Cell fusion
analysis after expression of envelope proteins and vesicular stomatitis virus
pseudotype assay showed that their hemagglutinins were responsible for the
difference in cell tropism between them. Site-directed mutagenesis indicated that
glutamic acid to lysine substitution at position 530 of the hemagglutinin was
required for the adaptation to the usage of marmoset SLAM. Our results indicate
that Vero cells stably expressing canine SLAM are highly sensitive to CDV in
clinical specimens and that only a single amino acid substitution in the
hemagglutinin can allow the virus to adapt to marmoset SLAM.

DOI: 10.1128/jvi.77.18.9943-9950.2003 
PMCID: PMC224612
PMID: 12941904  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2908. Am J Phys Anthropol. 2003 Sep;122(1):28-37.

Evolutionary implications of the unusual walking mechanics of the common marmoset
(C. jacchus).

Schmitt D(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Anthropology and Anatomy, Duke University Medical
Center, Durham, North Carolina 27710, USA. Daniel_Schmitt@baa.mc.duke.edu

Several features that appear to differentiate the walking gaits of most primates 
from those of most other mammals (the prevalence of diagonal-sequence footfalls, 
high degrees of humeral protraction, and low forelimb vs. hindlimb peak vertical 
forces) are believed to have evolved in response to requirements of locomotion on
thin arboreal supports by early primates that had developed clawless grasping
hands and feet. This putative relationship between anatomy, behavior, and ecology
is tested here by examining gait mechanics in the common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus), a primate that has sharp claws and reduced pedal grasping, and that
spends much of its time clinging on large trunks. Kinematic and kinetic data were
collected on three male Callithrix jacchus as they walked across a force platform
attached to the ground or to raised horizontal poles. The vast majority of all
walking gaits were lateral-sequence. For all steps, the humerus was retracted
(<90 degrees relative to a horizontal axis) or held in a neutral (90 degrees )
position at forelimb touchdown. Peak vertical forces on the forelimb were always 
higher than those on the hindlimb. These three features of the walking gaits of
C. jacchus separate it from any other primate studied (including other
callitrichids). The walking gaits of C. jacchus are mechanically more similar to 
those of small, nonprimate mammals. The results of this study support previous
models that suggest that the unusual suite of features that typify the walking
gaits of most primates are adaptations to the requirements of locomotion on thin 
arboreal supports. These data, along with data from other primates and
marsupials, suggest that primate postcranial and locomotor characteristics are
part of a basal adaptation for walking on thin branches.

Copyright 2003 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.10214 
PMID: 12923902  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

