

2928. J Neurol Sci. 2003 Aug 15;212(1-2):21-30.

1H-NMR spectroscopy combined with pattern recognition analysis reveals
characteristic chemical patterns in urines of MS patients and non-human primates 
with MS-like disease.

't Hart BA(1), Vogels JT, Spijksma G, Brok HP, Polman C, van der Greef J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, P.O. Box
3306, 2280 GH Rijswijk, The Netherlands. hart@bprc.nl

Proton nuclear magnetic resonance (1H-NMR) spectroscopy in combination with
pattern recognition techniques were used to investigate the composition of
organic compounds in urines from patients with multiple sclerosis (MS), patients 
with other neurological diseases (OND) and healthy controls (H). Using a valid
animal model of MS, namely the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) model of
experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), the relation of disease
progression and alteration of the urine composition was investigated. Urine
samples were collected during different stages of EAE, either induced with whole 
human myelin or with the myelin protein MOG in complete adjuvant. The urine
samples were analysed with 1H-NMR spectroscopy allowing simultaneous detection of
an array of compounds. Spectral differences between urines from EAE-affected and 
healthy monkeys were assessed with multivariate analysis. Evidence is provided
that development of EAE is associated with changes in the chemical composition of
the urine, in particular of compounds with NMR peaks in the region of the
spectrum between 0.5 and 3.50 ppm. In addition, we found preliminary evidence for
differences between urines from MS, OND and H groups.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-510x(03)00080-7 
PMID: 12809995  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2929. Orthod Craniofac Res. 2003 May;6(2):74-82.

Upregulation of immunoreactivity of endothelin-1 and alpha-SMA in PDL
microvasculature following acute tooth loading: an immunohistochemical study in
the marmoset.

Sims MR(1), Ashworth JF, Sampson WJ.

Author information: 
(1)Microcirculation and Lymphology Laboratory, Flinders University, Visiting
Research Fellow Orthodontic Unit, Dental School, Adelaide University, South
Australia, Australia.

OBJECTIVES: To test the hypothesis that a continuous mechanical tooth load would 
elevate immunoreactivity of endothelin-1 (ET-1) and alpha-smooth muscle actin
(alpha-SMA) in the periodontal ligament (PDL) microvasculature.
DESIGN: A randomized control study employing 1.5 h of loading to first molars.
SETTING AND SAMPLE POPULATION: Orthodontic Research Laboratory, Dental School,
Adelaide University. Four young adult, male marmoset monkeys were consecutively
anaesthetized and treated.
EXPERIMENTAL VARIABLE: An external telescoping frame applied a jaw closing load
(120-200 g) transmitted occlusally, via a rubber pad, to randomly assigned
mandibular left or right first molars. Contralateral molars were used as
controls.
OUTCOME MEASURE: Undemineralized, midsagittal, mandibular molar slices,
approximately 150 microm thick were immunolabelled with ET-1 and alpha-SMA
antibodies and examined in a confocal laser scanning microscope (CLSM) for
vascular endothelium and smooth muscle immunolabelling.
RESULTS: Three categories of post-capillary-sized venule endothelial cell
immunolabelling occurred: endothelium labelled solely with ET-1; endothelium
labelled solely with alpha-SMA; endothelium labelled with both ET-1 and
alpha-SMA. In endothelial cells, the alpha-SMA showed a moderate cytoplasmic
distribution with dense peripheral concentration. Loading increased arteriole
alpha-SMA actin labelling.
CONCLUSION: Scattered expression of ET-1 is the default state in primate PDL
endothelial cells. Increased antigenicity of endothelial cells to both ET-1 and
alpha-SMA, and of arteriolar smooth muscle to alpha-SMA, is a response to shear
and compression loads.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1600-0854.2003.o200.x 
PMID: 12809268  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

