

2929. Orthod Craniofac Res. 2003 May;6(2):74-82.

Upregulation of immunoreactivity of endothelin-1 and alpha-SMA in PDL
microvasculature following acute tooth loading: an immunohistochemical study in
the marmoset.

Sims MR(1), Ashworth JF, Sampson WJ.

Author information: 
(1)Microcirculation and Lymphology Laboratory, Flinders University, Visiting
Research Fellow Orthodontic Unit, Dental School, Adelaide University, South
Australia, Australia.

OBJECTIVES: To test the hypothesis that a continuous mechanical tooth load would 
elevate immunoreactivity of endothelin-1 (ET-1) and alpha-smooth muscle actin
(alpha-SMA) in the periodontal ligament (PDL) microvasculature.
DESIGN: A randomized control study employing 1.5 h of loading to first molars.
SETTING AND SAMPLE POPULATION: Orthodontic Research Laboratory, Dental School,
Adelaide University. Four young adult, male marmoset monkeys were consecutively
anaesthetized and treated.
EXPERIMENTAL VARIABLE: An external telescoping frame applied a jaw closing load
(120-200 g) transmitted occlusally, via a rubber pad, to randomly assigned
mandibular left or right first molars. Contralateral molars were used as
controls.
OUTCOME MEASURE: Undemineralized, midsagittal, mandibular molar slices,
approximately 150 microm thick were immunolabelled with ET-1 and alpha-SMA
antibodies and examined in a confocal laser scanning microscope (CLSM) for
vascular endothelium and smooth muscle immunolabelling.
RESULTS: Three categories of post-capillary-sized venule endothelial cell
immunolabelling occurred: endothelium labelled solely with ET-1; endothelium
labelled solely with alpha-SMA; endothelium labelled with both ET-1 and
alpha-SMA. In endothelial cells, the alpha-SMA showed a moderate cytoplasmic
distribution with dense peripheral concentration. Loading increased arteriole
alpha-SMA actin labelling.
CONCLUSION: Scattered expression of ET-1 is the default state in primate PDL
endothelial cells. Increased antigenicity of endothelial cells to both ET-1 and
alpha-SMA, and of arteriolar smooth muscle to alpha-SMA, is a response to shear
and compression loads.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1600-0854.2003.o200.x 
PMID: 12809268  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2930. ScientificWorldJournal. 2002 Jun 26;2:1762-73.

Embryonic stem cell lines of nonhuman primates.

Nakatsuji N(1), Suemori H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Development and Differentiation, Institute for Frontier Medical 
Sciences, Kyoto University, 53 Kawaharacho, Shogoin, Sakyo-ku, Kyoto 606-8507,
Japan. nnakatsu@frontier.kyoto-u.ac.jp

Human embryonic stem (ES) cell lines have opened great potential and expectation 
for cell therapy and regenerative medicine. Monkey and human ES cell lines, which
are very similar to each other, have been established from monkey blastocysts and
surplus human blastocysts from fertility clinics. Nonhuman primate ES cell lines 
provide important research tools for basic and applicative research. Firstly,
they provide wider aspects of investigation of the regulative mechanisms of stem 
cells and cell differentiation among primate species. Secondly, their usage does 
not need clearance or permission from the regulative rules in many countries that
are associated with the ethical aspects of human ES cells, although human and
nonhuman embryos and fetuses are very similar to each other. Lastly and most
importantly, they are indispensable for animal models of cell therapy to test
effectiveness, safety, and immunological reaction of the allogenic
transplantation in a setting similar to the treatment of human diseases. So far, 
ES cell lines have been established from rhesus monkey (Macaca mulatta), common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), and cynomolgus monkey (Macaca fascicularis), using
blastocysts produced naturally or by in vitro fertilization (IVF) and
intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI). These cell lines seem to have very
similar characteristics. They express alkaline phosphatase activity and
stage-specific embryonic antigen (SSEA)-4 and, in most cases, SSEA-3. Their
pluripotency was confirmed by the formation of embryoid bodies and
differentiation into various cell types in culture and also by the formation of
teratomas that contained many types of differentiated tissues including
derivatives of three germ layers after transplantation into the severe combined
immunodeficiency (SCID) mice. The noneffectiveness of the leukemia inhibitory
factor (LIF) signal makes culture of primate and human ES cell lines prone to
undergo spontaneous differentiation and thus it is difficult to maintain these
stem cell colonies. Also, these ES cells are more susceptible to various
stresses, causing difficulty with subculturing using enzymatic treatment and
cloning from single cells. However, with various improvements in culture methods,
it is now possible to maintain stable colonies of monkey ES cells using a
serum-free medium and subculturing with trypsin treatment. Under such conditions,
cynomolgus monkey ES cell lines can be maintained in an undifferentiated state
with a normal karyotype and pluripotency even after prolonged periods of culture 
over 1 year. Such progress should facilitate many aspects of stem cell research
using both nonhuman primate and human ES cell lines.

DOI: 10.1100/tsw.2002.829 
PMCID: PMC6009524
PMID: 12806169  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

