

2931. Toxicol Appl Pharmacol. 2003 Jun 15;189(3):170-9.

Long-term, low-level exposure of guinea pigs and marmosets to sarin vapor in air:
lowest observable effect level.

Van Helden HP(1), Trap HC, Oostdijk JP, Kuijpers WC, Langenberg JP, Benschop HP.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Chemical and Biological Protection, TNO Prins Maurits Laboratory, 
P.O. Box 45, 2280 AA, Rijswijk, The Netherlands. helden@pml.tno.nl

Realistic scenarios for low-level exposure to nerve agents will often involve
exposures over several hours to extremely low doses of agent. In order to expose 
animals to the lowest controllable concentrations of agent and to increase
exposure times until a lowest observable effect level (LOEL) becomes measurable, 
a validated system was developed for exposing conscious animals to 0.05-1.0
microg/m(3) (8-160 ppt) of sarin and other nerve agents. Based on cold trapping
of sarin from the exposure air, the concentration could be measured
semicontinuously, at 4-min time intervals by means of gas chromatography. We
found that the LOEL upon a 5-h whole body exposure of guinea pigs and marmosets
to sarin vapor corresponds with the measurement of an internal dose by means of
fluoride-induced regeneration of sarin from phosphylated binding sites in plasma,
mostly BuChE. For guinea pigs the LOEL was observed at Ct = 0.010 +/- 0.002
mg/min/m(3), whereas a Ct of 0.04 +/- 0.01 mg/min/m(3) was established for the
LOEL in marmosets. These levels are several orders of magnitude lower than those 
based on classical measurement of depressed cholinesterase activities. At low
exposure levels of guinea pigs and marmosets (< or =1 microg/m(3)), a reasonable 
linearity was observed between exposure dose and internal dose. The data were
addressed in the light of the recently recommended occupational exposure limits
to sarin for workers without respiratory protection, which suggests that the
exposure limits should be reconsidered if the slightest inhibition of
cholinesterases should be prevented.

DOI: 10.1016/s0041-008x(03)00131-5 
PMID: 12791302  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2932. Curr Eye Res. 2003 Jan;26(1):15-23.

Differential expression of the lenticular antioxidant system in laboratory
animals: a determinant of species predilection to oxidative stress-induced ocular
toxicity?

Slaughter MR(1), Thakkar H, O'Brien PJ.

Author information: 
(1)Safety Assessment, GlaxoSmithKline, Ware, UK.
mark_slaughter@sandwich.pfizer.com

PURPOSE: Various animal species have been used to study oxidative stress-induced 
cataractogenesis; however, given that differences in the expression of the lens
antioxidant system may influence species susceptibility to oxidative stress, we
compared and contrasted a broad spectrum of components of the lens antioxidant
system in dog, rat, marmoset, and rabbit.
METHODS: Lenses collected from beagle dogs, Sprague-Dawley rats, marmosets, and
New Zealand white rabbits were assayed for reduced glutathione (GSH), and
activities of copper-zinc and manganese superoxide dismutase (CuZn-SOD; Mn-SOD), 
catalase (CAT), glutathione peroxidase (GPX), gamma-Glutamylcysteine synthetase
(GCS), glutathione reductase (GR), glutathione-S-transferases (GST), and
glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (GPDH), and Trolox equivalent antioxidant
capacity (TEAC).
RESULTS: Expression of the lens antioxidant system varied considerably between
species. Marmoset lens contained the highest levels of GSH, its respective
biosynthetic and recycling enzymes GCS and GR, and the associated H(2
)O(2)-dismutation enzyme GPX. Activities of both SOD isoforms were also highest
in marmoset lens. However, activities of the xenobiotic-conjugating enzyme GST
and NADPH-generating enzyme GPDH were relatively low. In contrast, dog lens had
the lowest levels of GSH, GCS, GR, and Cu-Zn SOD (1/2, 1/2 and 1/33, and 1/63
that in marmoset) but highest levels of GST and GPDH. Rabbit lens contained the
highest CAT activity, at up to 3.5-fold that for marmoset and rat.
CONCLUSION: These results demonstrate substantial variation in lens antioxidant
systems between different laboratory animal species. Given that such variation
may affect relative susceptibility to oxidative stress-mediated ocular toxicity, 
our findings may provide useful information when choosing different animal
species for lens research.

DOI: 10.1076/ceyr.26.1.15.14247 
PMID: 12789532  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

