

2932. Curr Eye Res. 2003 Jan;26(1):15-23.

Differential expression of the lenticular antioxidant system in laboratory
animals: a determinant of species predilection to oxidative stress-induced ocular
toxicity?

Slaughter MR(1), Thakkar H, O'Brien PJ.

Author information: 
(1)Safety Assessment, GlaxoSmithKline, Ware, UK.
mark_slaughter@sandwich.pfizer.com

PURPOSE: Various animal species have been used to study oxidative stress-induced 
cataractogenesis; however, given that differences in the expression of the lens
antioxidant system may influence species susceptibility to oxidative stress, we
compared and contrasted a broad spectrum of components of the lens antioxidant
system in dog, rat, marmoset, and rabbit.
METHODS: Lenses collected from beagle dogs, Sprague-Dawley rats, marmosets, and
New Zealand white rabbits were assayed for reduced glutathione (GSH), and
activities of copper-zinc and manganese superoxide dismutase (CuZn-SOD; Mn-SOD), 
catalase (CAT), glutathione peroxidase (GPX), gamma-Glutamylcysteine synthetase
(GCS), glutathione reductase (GR), glutathione-S-transferases (GST), and
glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (GPDH), and Trolox equivalent antioxidant
capacity (TEAC).
RESULTS: Expression of the lens antioxidant system varied considerably between
species. Marmoset lens contained the highest levels of GSH, its respective
biosynthetic and recycling enzymes GCS and GR, and the associated H(2
)O(2)-dismutation enzyme GPX. Activities of both SOD isoforms were also highest
in marmoset lens. However, activities of the xenobiotic-conjugating enzyme GST
and NADPH-generating enzyme GPDH were relatively low. In contrast, dog lens had
the lowest levels of GSH, GCS, GR, and Cu-Zn SOD (1/2, 1/2 and 1/33, and 1/63
that in marmoset) but highest levels of GST and GPDH. Rabbit lens contained the
highest CAT activity, at up to 3.5-fold that for marmoset and rat.
CONCLUSION: These results demonstrate substantial variation in lens antioxidant
systems between different laboratory animal species. Given that such variation
may affect relative susceptibility to oxidative stress-mediated ocular toxicity, 
our findings may provide useful information when choosing different animal
species for lens research.

DOI: 10.1076/ceyr.26.1.15.14247 
PMID: 12789532  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2933. J Neurosci. 2003 May 15;23(10):4378-85.

Variable dopamine release probability and short-term plasticity between
functional domains of the primate striatum.

Cragg SJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, University of Oxford, UK.
stephanie.cragg@pharm.ox.ac.uk

Release of the neuromodulator dopamine (DA) is critical to the control of
locomotion, motivation, and reward. However, the probability of DA release is not
well understood. Current understanding of neurotransmitter release probability in
the CNS is limited to the conventional synaptic amino acid transmitters (e.g.,
glutamate and GABA). These fast neurotransmitters are released with a repertoire 
of probabilities according to synapse type, and these probabilities show
activity-dependent plasticity according to synapse use. Synapses for
neuromodulators such as DA, however, are designed for signaling that diverges
temporally and spatially from that for fast neurotransmitters: DA receptors are
exclusively metabotropic and at sites that extend to extrasynaptic locations and 
neighboring synapses. In this study, the release probability of DA was explored
in real time in limbicversus motor-associated functional domains of the striatum 
of a primate (marmoset; Callithrix jacchus) using fast-scan voltammetry at a
carbon-fiber microelectrode. We show that the probability of axonal DA release
varies with striatal domain. Furthermore, release probability exhibits a
short-term, activity-dependent plasticity that ranges from depression to
facilitation in motor-through limbic-associated regions, respectively. Rapid
plasticity does not result from metabotropic D2-like DA receptor activation or
ionotropic GABA(A) receptor effects but is dependent on Ca2+ availability. These 
data reveal that rapid dynamics in DA release probability will participate in the
transmission of the patterns and frequencies encoded by DA neuron action
potential discharge. Furthermore, the regional variation in these features
indicates that limbic-versus motor-associated DA neurons are permitted to
generate diverse DA signals in response to a given firing pattern.


PMCID: PMC6741072
PMID: 12764127  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

