

2940. Brain Res. 2003 May 23;973(1):142-5.

Laminar expression of neurofilament protein in the superior colliculus of the
marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus).

Bourne JA(1), Rosa MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, School of Biomedical Sciences, P.O. Box 13F, Monash 
University, Clayton, Victoria 3800, Australia. james.bourne@med.monash.edu.au

The expression profile of the monoclonal antibody SMI-32 was examined in the
superior colliculus of adult marmosets. This antibody recognises subunits of the 
non- and dephosphorylated neurofilament protein, labelling predominantly neuronal
perikarya and dendrites. The densest cellular label was observed in the
intermediate layers (primarily, the stratum griseum intermediale), consisting of 
large multi- or bipolar neurones which were preferentially located within
cytochrome oxidase-rich regions. The morphological characteristics of neurones
showing heavy staining resemble those of extrinsic projection cells, suggesting a
correlation between neurofilament content and axonal length.

DOI: 10.1016/s0006-8993(03)02527-7 
PMID: 12729963  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2941. Mov Disord. 2003 May;18(5):487-95.

Effect of pulsatile administration of levodopa on dyskinesia induction in
drug-naïve MPTP-treated common marmosets: effect of dose, frequency of
administration, and brain exposure.

Smith LA(1), Jackson MJ, Hansard MJ, Maratos E, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Pharmacology and Therapeutics, Guy's, King's, and St Thomas'
School of Biomedical Sciences, King's College, London, United Kingdom.

Levodopa (L-dopa) consistently primes basal ganglia for the appearance of
dyskinesia in parkinsonian patients and
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine hydrochloride (MPTP) -treated
primates. This finding may reflect its relatively short duration of effects
resulting in pulsatile stimulation of postsynaptic dopamine receptors in the
striatum. We have compared the relationship between L-dopa dose and frequency of 
administration on dyskinesia initiation in drug-naïve, MPTP-treated common
marmosets. We have also studied the effect of increased brain exposure to
pulsatile administration by combining a low-dose of L-dopa with the peripheral
catechol-O-methyltransferase inhibitor (COMT-I), entacapone. Pulsatile
administration of a low (dose range, 5.0-7.5 mg/kg p.o.) or a high (12.5 mg/kg)
dose of L-dopa plus carbidopa b.i.d. produced a dose-related reversal of motor
deficits. Repeated administration of low and high doses of L-dopa for 26 days to 
drug-naïve, MPTP-treated animals also caused a dose-related induction of
peak-dose dyskinesia. Repeated administration of high-dose L-dopa b.i.d. compared
to once daily caused a frequency-related improvement of motor symptoms, resulting
in a more rapid and initially more intense appearance of peak-dose dyskinesia.
Administration of low-dose L-dopa b.i.d. for 26 days in combination with
entacapone enhanced the increase in locomotor activity and reversal of disability
produced by L-dopa alone, but with no obvious change in duration of L-dopa's
effect. However, combining entacapone with L-dopa resulted in the more rapid
appearance of dyskinesia, which was initially more severe than occurred with
L-dopa alone. Importantly, increasing pulsatile exposure of brain to L-dopa by
preventing its peripheral breakdown also increases dyskinesia induction.

Copyright 2003 Movement Disorder Society

DOI: 10.1002/mds.10394 
PMID: 12722161  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

