

2941. Mov Disord. 2003 May;18(5):487-95.

Effect of pulsatile administration of levodopa on dyskinesia induction in
drug-naïve MPTP-treated common marmosets: effect of dose, frequency of
administration, and brain exposure.

Smith LA(1), Jackson MJ, Hansard MJ, Maratos E, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Pharmacology and Therapeutics, Guy's, King's, and St Thomas'
School of Biomedical Sciences, King's College, London, United Kingdom.

Levodopa (L-dopa) consistently primes basal ganglia for the appearance of
dyskinesia in parkinsonian patients and
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine hydrochloride (MPTP) -treated
primates. This finding may reflect its relatively short duration of effects
resulting in pulsatile stimulation of postsynaptic dopamine receptors in the
striatum. We have compared the relationship between L-dopa dose and frequency of 
administration on dyskinesia initiation in drug-naïve, MPTP-treated common
marmosets. We have also studied the effect of increased brain exposure to
pulsatile administration by combining a low-dose of L-dopa with the peripheral
catechol-O-methyltransferase inhibitor (COMT-I), entacapone. Pulsatile
administration of a low (dose range, 5.0-7.5 mg/kg p.o.) or a high (12.5 mg/kg)
dose of L-dopa plus carbidopa b.i.d. produced a dose-related reversal of motor
deficits. Repeated administration of low and high doses of L-dopa for 26 days to 
drug-naïve, MPTP-treated animals also caused a dose-related induction of
peak-dose dyskinesia. Repeated administration of high-dose L-dopa b.i.d. compared
to once daily caused a frequency-related improvement of motor symptoms, resulting
in a more rapid and initially more intense appearance of peak-dose dyskinesia.
Administration of low-dose L-dopa b.i.d. for 26 days in combination with
entacapone enhanced the increase in locomotor activity and reversal of disability
produced by L-dopa alone, but with no obvious change in duration of L-dopa's
effect. However, combining entacapone with L-dopa resulted in the more rapid
appearance of dyskinesia, which was initially more severe than occurred with
L-dopa alone. Importantly, increasing pulsatile exposure of brain to L-dopa by
preventing its peripheral breakdown also increases dyskinesia induction.

Copyright 2003 Movement Disorder Society

DOI: 10.1002/mds.10394 
PMID: 12722161  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2942. J Neurophysiol. 2003 Aug;90(2):930-7. Epub 2003 Apr 23.

The nature of V1 neural responses to 2D moving patterns depends on
receptive-field structure in the marmoset monkey.

Tinsley CJ(1), Webb BS, Barraclough NE, Vincent CJ, Parker A, Derrington AM.

Author information: 
(1)School of Psychology, University of Nottingham, University Park, Nottingham
NG7 2RD, United Kingdom.

Erratum in
    J Neurophysiol. 2004 Aug;92(2):1263.

A plaid pattern is formed when two sinusoidal gratings of different orientations 
are added together. Previous work has shown that V1 neurons selectively encode
the direction and orientation of the component gratings in a moving plaid but not
the direction of the plaid itself (Movshon et al. 1985). We recorded the
responses of 49 direction-selective neurons to moving gratings and plaid patterns
in area V1 of the anesthetized marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus). The
responses of V1 neurons to rectangular patches of varying lengths and widths
containing gratings of optimal spatial frequency were used to measure size and
aspect ratio of the receptive-field subunits. We measured responses to plaid
patterns moving in different directions and graded the magnitude of the response 
to the direction of motion of the plaid and the response to the direction of
motion of the component gratings. We found significant correlations between
receptive-field structure and the type and strength of its response to moving
plaid patterns. The strength of pattern and component responses was significantly
correlated with the interrelated properties of direction tuning width (Spearman's
r = 0.82, P < 0.001), and receptive-field subunit aspect ratio (Spearman's r =
-0.79, P < 0.001). Neurons with broad direction tuning and short, wide
receptive-field subunits gave their greatest response when the plaid moved in
their preferred direction. Conversely, neurons with narrow direction tuning and
long, narrow receptive-field subunits gave their greatest responses when the
plaid moved in a direction such that one of its components moved in the preferred
direction.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00708.2002 
PMID: 12711710  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

