

2953. Behav Brain Res. 2003 Apr 17;141(1):51-62.

Unilateral hippocampal and inferotemporal cortex lesions in opposite hemispheres 
impair learning of single-pair visual discriminations as well as visuovisual
conditional tasks in monkeys.

Barefoot HC(1), Maclean CJ, Baker HF, Ridley RM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biosciences, University of Hertfordshire, College Lane, Hatfield
AL10 9AB, UK.

Monkeys with unilateral ablations of the inferotemporal (IT) cortex were not
impaired on learning or retention of single-pair object discriminations or
visuovisual conditional tasks. Addition of an excitotoxic hippocampal lesion to
the hemisphere opposite to the IT ablation impaired retention and acquisition of 
single-pair object discriminations and visuovisual conditional tasks. Histology
revealed no areas of bilaterally symmetrical damage. Previous experiments have
shown that bilateral excitotoxic hippocampal lesions do not impair single-pair
object discriminations although they do produce a substantial impairment on
visuovisual conditional tasks. Bilateral IT ablations produce impairment on
single-pair object discrimination tasks. It is argued that the hippocampus in the
hemisphere with the IT ablation is deprived of feed-forward visual input and that
this, in addition to the contralateral hippocampal lesion, accounts for the
impairment on the visuovisual conditional tasks. It is also argued that feed-back
projections from the hippocampus to the IT cortex influence the learning of
single-pair object discriminations. This influence may be difficult to
demonstrate by the addition of hippocampal lesions to IT lesions because of the
substantial effect of the IT lesion alone. It may be difficult to demonstrate by 
bilateral hippocampal lesions alone since the effect may be below that which
generates an observable impairment. Nonetheless, an effect may be seen when a
hippocampal lesion is made in monkeys with some IT damage, as in this experiment,
as well as by the general observation that large lesions of the temporal lobes
produce larger perceptuo-mnemonic impairments than lesions confined to the
hippocampus or temporal neocortex in monkeys and man.

DOI: 10.1016/s0166-4328(02)00320-0 
PMID: 12672559  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2954. Eur J Neurosci. 2003 Mar;17(6):1313-8.

The pyramidal neuron in occipital, temporal and prefrontal cortex of the owl
monkey (Aotus trivirgatus): regional specialization in cell structure.

Elston GN(1).

Author information: 
(1)Vision, Touch and Hearing Research Centre, Department of Physiology and
Pharmacology, School of Biomedical Sciences, The University of Queensland,
Queensland, 4072, Australia. G.Elston@vthrc.uq.edu

Recent studies have revealed marked regional variation in pyramidal cell
morphology in primate cortex. In particular, pyramidal cells in human and macaque
prefrontal cortex (PFC) are considerably more spinous than those in other
cortical regions. PFC pyramidal cells in the New World marmoset monkey, however, 
are less spinous than those in man and macaques. Taken together, these data
suggest that the pyramidal cell has become more branched and more spinous during 
the evolution of PFC in only some primate lineages. This specialization may be of
fundamental importance in determining the cognitive styles of the different
species. However, these data are preliminary, with only one New World and two Old
World species having been studied. Moreover, the marmoset data were obtained from
different cases. In the present study we investigated PFC pyramidal cells in
another New World monkey, the owl monkey, to extend the basis for comparison. As 
in the New World marmoset monkey, prefrontal pyramidal cells in owl monkeys have 
relatively few spines. These species differences appear to reflect variation in
the extent to which PFC circuitry has become specialized during evolution. Highly
complex pyramidal cells in PFC appear not to have been a feature of a common
prosimian ancestor, but have evolved with the dramatic expansion of PFC in some
anthropoid lineages.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1460-9568.2003.02552.x 
PMID: 12670321  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

