

2954. Eur J Neurosci. 2003 Mar;17(6):1313-8.

The pyramidal neuron in occipital, temporal and prefrontal cortex of the owl
monkey (Aotus trivirgatus): regional specialization in cell structure.

Elston GN(1).

Author information: 
(1)Vision, Touch and Hearing Research Centre, Department of Physiology and
Pharmacology, School of Biomedical Sciences, The University of Queensland,
Queensland, 4072, Australia. G.Elston@vthrc.uq.edu

Recent studies have revealed marked regional variation in pyramidal cell
morphology in primate cortex. In particular, pyramidal cells in human and macaque
prefrontal cortex (PFC) are considerably more spinous than those in other
cortical regions. PFC pyramidal cells in the New World marmoset monkey, however, 
are less spinous than those in man and macaques. Taken together, these data
suggest that the pyramidal cell has become more branched and more spinous during 
the evolution of PFC in only some primate lineages. This specialization may be of
fundamental importance in determining the cognitive styles of the different
species. However, these data are preliminary, with only one New World and two Old
World species having been studied. Moreover, the marmoset data were obtained from
different cases. In the present study we investigated PFC pyramidal cells in
another New World monkey, the owl monkey, to extend the basis for comparison. As 
in the New World marmoset monkey, prefrontal pyramidal cells in owl monkeys have 
relatively few spines. These species differences appear to reflect variation in
the extent to which PFC circuitry has become specialized during evolution. Highly
complex pyramidal cells in PFC appear not to have been a feature of a common
prosimian ancestor, but have evolved with the dramatic expansion of PFC in some
anthropoid lineages.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1460-9568.2003.02552.x 
PMID: 12670321  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2955. Brain Res. 2003 Apr 11;968(2):206-18.

Alterations in m-RNA expression for Cu,Zn-superoxide dismutase and glutathione
peroxidase in the basal ganglia of MPTP-treated marmosets and patients with
Parkinson's disease.

Kunikowska G(1), Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Diseases Research Centre, Guy's, King's and St Thomas'
School of Biomedical Sciences, King's College, London, UK.

Alterations occurring in the antioxidant enzymes, copper, zinc-dependent
superoxide dismutase (Cu,Zn-SOD) and glutathione peroxidase (GPX) following
nigral dopaminergic denervation are unclear. We now report on the distribution
and levels of m-RNA for Cu,Zn-SOD and GPX in basal ganglia of normal and
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated common marmosets, and
in normal individuals and patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) using in situ
hybridization histochemistry and oligodeoxynucleotide (single-stranded DNA)
probes. Cu,Zn-SOD and GPX m-RNA was present throughout basal ganglia (nucleus
accumbens, caudate-putamen, globus pallidus, substantia nigra) in the common
marmoset, with the highest levels being in substantia nigra (SN). Following MPTP 
induced nigral cell loss, Cu,Zn-SOD m-RNA levels were decreased in all areas but 
the SNr, and particularly in SNc (71%, P<0.001). MPTP-treatment had no effect on 
GPX m-RNA expression in any area of basal ganglia. Cu,Zn-SOD and GPX m-RNA was
also present in the normal human SN. In PD, however, Cu,Zn-SOD m-RNA was
significantly decreased (89%, P<0.005) in SNc, and there was a near-complete loss
of GPX m-RNA in both SNc (100%, P<0.005) and SNr (88%, P<0.005). The loss of
Cu,Zn-SOD m-RNA in SNc in MPTP-treated marmosets and patients with PD suggests
that it is primarily located in dopaminergic neuronal cell bodies. The loss of
GPX m-RNA in SNc in PD also suggests a localisation to dopaminergic cell bodies, 
but the similar change in SNr may indicate its presence in dopaminergic neurites.
In contrast, the absence of change in GPX m-RNA in MPTP-treated primates appears 
to rule out its presence in dopaminergic cells in this species, but this may only
be apparent and may reflect increased expression in glial cells following acute
toxin treatment.

DOI: 10.1016/s0006-8993(03)02240-6 
PMID: 12663090  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

