

2955. Brain Res. 2003 Apr 11;968(2):206-18.

Alterations in m-RNA expression for Cu,Zn-superoxide dismutase and glutathione
peroxidase in the basal ganglia of MPTP-treated marmosets and patients with
Parkinson's disease.

Kunikowska G(1), Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Diseases Research Centre, Guy's, King's and St Thomas'
School of Biomedical Sciences, King's College, London, UK.

Alterations occurring in the antioxidant enzymes, copper, zinc-dependent
superoxide dismutase (Cu,Zn-SOD) and glutathione peroxidase (GPX) following
nigral dopaminergic denervation are unclear. We now report on the distribution
and levels of m-RNA for Cu,Zn-SOD and GPX in basal ganglia of normal and
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated common marmosets, and
in normal individuals and patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) using in situ
hybridization histochemistry and oligodeoxynucleotide (single-stranded DNA)
probes. Cu,Zn-SOD and GPX m-RNA was present throughout basal ganglia (nucleus
accumbens, caudate-putamen, globus pallidus, substantia nigra) in the common
marmoset, with the highest levels being in substantia nigra (SN). Following MPTP 
induced nigral cell loss, Cu,Zn-SOD m-RNA levels were decreased in all areas but 
the SNr, and particularly in SNc (71%, P<0.001). MPTP-treatment had no effect on 
GPX m-RNA expression in any area of basal ganglia. Cu,Zn-SOD and GPX m-RNA was
also present in the normal human SN. In PD, however, Cu,Zn-SOD m-RNA was
significantly decreased (89%, P<0.005) in SNc, and there was a near-complete loss
of GPX m-RNA in both SNc (100%, P<0.005) and SNr (88%, P<0.005). The loss of
Cu,Zn-SOD m-RNA in SNc in MPTP-treated marmosets and patients with PD suggests
that it is primarily located in dopaminergic neuronal cell bodies. The loss of
GPX m-RNA in SNc in PD also suggests a localisation to dopaminergic cell bodies, 
but the similar change in SNr may indicate its presence in dopaminergic neurites.
In contrast, the absence of change in GPX m-RNA in MPTP-treated primates appears 
to rule out its presence in dopaminergic cells in this species, but this may only
be apparent and may reflect increased expression in glial cells following acute
toxin treatment.

DOI: 10.1016/s0006-8993(03)02240-6 
PMID: 12663090  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2956. J Neurosci. 2003 Mar 15;23(6):2251-64.

Responses of neurons in the middle temporal visual area after long-standing
lesions of the primary visual cortex in adult new world monkeys.

Collins CE(1), Lyon DC, Kaas JH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tennessee 37203,
USA.

The retinotopic organization of the middle temporal visual area (MT) was
determined in six adult owl monkeys and one adult marmoset 69 d to 10 months
after lesions of the dorsolateral primary visual cortex (V1). The lesions removed
were limited to extensive parts of the representation of the lower visual
quadrant in V1. Microelectrodes were used to record from neurons at numerous
sites in MT to determine whether parts of MT normally devoted to the lower visual
quadrant (1) were unresponsive to visual stimuli, (2) acquired responsiveness to 
inputs from intact portions of V1, or (3) became responsive to some other
visually driven input such as a relay from the superior colliculus via the
pulvinar to MT. All monkeys (n = 6) with moderate to moderately large lesions had
unresponsive portions of MT even after 10 months of recovery. These unresponsive 
regions were retinotopically equivalent to the removed parts of V1 in normal
animals. Thus, there was no evidence for an alternative source of activation. In 
addition, these results indicate that any retinotopic reorganization of MT based 
on inputs from intact portions of V1 was not extensive, yet neurons near the
margins of responsive cortex may have acquired new receptive fields, and the
smallest 5 degrees lesion of V1 failed to produce an unresponsive zone. Deprived 
portions of MT were not remarkably changed in histological appearance in
cytochrome oxidase, Nissl, and Wisteria floribunda agglutinin preparations.
Nevertheless, some reduction in myelin staining and other histological changes
were suggested. We conclude that MT is highly dependent on V1 for activation in
these monkeys, and alternative sources do not become effective over months when
normal activation is absent. Additionally, remaining V1 inputs have only a
limited capacity to expand their activation territory into deprived portions of
MT.


PMCID: PMC6742043
PMID: 12657684  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

