

2956. J Neurosci. 2003 Mar 15;23(6):2251-64.

Responses of neurons in the middle temporal visual area after long-standing
lesions of the primary visual cortex in adult new world monkeys.

Collins CE(1), Lyon DC, Kaas JH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tennessee 37203,
USA.

The retinotopic organization of the middle temporal visual area (MT) was
determined in six adult owl monkeys and one adult marmoset 69 d to 10 months
after lesions of the dorsolateral primary visual cortex (V1). The lesions removed
were limited to extensive parts of the representation of the lower visual
quadrant in V1. Microelectrodes were used to record from neurons at numerous
sites in MT to determine whether parts of MT normally devoted to the lower visual
quadrant (1) were unresponsive to visual stimuli, (2) acquired responsiveness to 
inputs from intact portions of V1, or (3) became responsive to some other
visually driven input such as a relay from the superior colliculus via the
pulvinar to MT. All monkeys (n = 6) with moderate to moderately large lesions had
unresponsive portions of MT even after 10 months of recovery. These unresponsive 
regions were retinotopically equivalent to the removed parts of V1 in normal
animals. Thus, there was no evidence for an alternative source of activation. In 
addition, these results indicate that any retinotopic reorganization of MT based 
on inputs from intact portions of V1 was not extensive, yet neurons near the
margins of responsive cortex may have acquired new receptive fields, and the
smallest 5 degrees lesion of V1 failed to produce an unresponsive zone. Deprived 
portions of MT were not remarkably changed in histological appearance in
cytochrome oxidase, Nissl, and Wisteria floribunda agglutinin preparations.
Nevertheless, some reduction in myelin staining and other histological changes
were suggested. We conclude that MT is highly dependent on V1 for activation in
these monkeys, and alternative sources do not become effective over months when
normal activation is absent. Additionally, remaining V1 inputs have only a
limited capacity to expand their activation territory into deprived portions of
MT.


PMCID: PMC6742043
PMID: 12657684  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2957. Reprod Domest Anim. 2003 Apr;38(2):90-6.

In vitro development of marmoset monkey oocytes by pre-antral follicle culture.

Nayudu PL(1), Wu J, Michelmann HW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Reproductive Biology, German Primate Centre, Goettingen,
Germany. pnayudu@gwdg.de

A technique for in vitro maturation of oocytes from small ovarian follicles of
marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) has been developed. We employed a two-step 
culture system for primary follicles (45-85 microm) and a one-step culture
technique for secondary follicles (>85 microm). The two-step technique started
with the culture of stromal tissue fragments for 2 days. Thereafter, mechanically
isolated follicles were transferred to a culture system where they attached to
the culture surface and grew for up to a further 12 days. Significant growth of
the small follicles and their oocytes was only achieved with gonadotrophins in
the medium. Oocytes with a mean diameter of 39 microm from follicles <85 microm
reached a mean diameter of 90 microm by the end of the two-step culture. After in
vitro maturation, 19% of oocytes from these follicles had progressed to the
germinal vesicle breakdown (GVBD). Follicles between 85 and 170 microm in
diameter were isolated from the stroma and placed directly in the culture.
Oocytes from these follicles had a mean diameter of 64 microm. The maximum size
the oocytes reached in culture was related to the age of the females
(pre-pubertal females: 102 +/- 1.3 microm; adults: 96 +/- 1.4 microm).
Twenty-seven per cent of oocytes from pre-pubertal ovaries achieved GVBD and
nearly two-thirds of these progressed to polar body stage. From adult ovaries,
only 12% progressed to GVBD and one-third of these to polar body stage. It is
possible to develop mature oocytes in vitro from marmoset secondary pre-antral
follicles (>85 microm). From primary follicles, although near full size oocytes
were developed, maturation capacity was incomplete.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1439-0531.2003.00398.x 
PMID: 12654018  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

