

2960. J Neurophysiol. 2003 Mar;89(3):1603-22.

Spectral integration in A1 of awake primates: neurons with single- and
multipeaked tuning characteristics.

Kadia SC(1), Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.

We investigated modulations by stimulus components placed outside of the
classical receptive field in the primary auditory cortex (A1) of awake marmosets.
Two classes of neurons were identified using single tone stimuli: neurons with
single-peaked frequency tuning characteristics (147/185, 80%) and neurons with
multipeaked frequency tuning characteristics (38/185, 20%), referred to as
single- and multipeaked units, respectively. Each class of neurons was further
studied using two-tone paradigms in which the frequency, intensity, and timing of
the second tone were systematically varied while a unit was driven by the first
tone placed at a unit's characteristic frequency (CF) if it was single-peaked or 
at one of multiple spectral peaks if it was multipeaked. The main findings were: 
1) excitatory spectral peaks in the frequency tuning of the multipeaked units
were often harmonically related. 2) Multipeaked units showed facilitation in
their responses to combinations of two harmonically related tones placed at the
spectral peaks of their frequency tuning. The two-tone facilitation was strongest
for the simultaneously presented tones. 3) In 76 of 113 single-peaked units
studied using the two-tone paradigm, facilitatory and/or inhibitory modulations
by distant off-CF tones were observed. This distant inhibition differed from
flanking (or side-band) inhibitions near CF. 4) In single-peaked units, the
distant off-CF inhibitions were dominated by tones at frequencies that were
harmonically related to the CF of a unit, whereas the facilitation by off-CF
tones was observed for a wide range of frequencies. And 5) in both single- and
multipeaked units, sound levels of two interacting tones determined whether the
two tones produced excitation or inhibition. The largest facilitation was
achieved by using two tones at their corresponding preferred sound levels.
Together, these findings suggest that extracting or rejecting harmonically
related components embedded in complex sounds may represent fundamental signal
processing properties in different classes of A1 neurons.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00271.2001 
PMID: 12626629  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2961. FASEB J. 2003 May;17(8):929-31. Epub 2003 Mar 5.

Microarray analysis of nonhuman primates: validation of experimental models in
neurological disorders.

Marvanová M(1), Ménager J, Bezard E, Bontrop RE, Pradier L, Wong G.

Author information: 
(1)Functional Genomics and Bioinformatics Laboratory, Department of Neurobiology,
A. I. Virtanen Institute, University of Kuopio, 70211 Kuopio, Finland.

Nonhuman primates (NHPs) have provided robust experimental animal models for many
human-related diseases due to their similar physiologies. Nonetheless, profound
differences remain in the acquisition, progression, and outcome of important
diseases such as AIDS and Alzheimer's, for which the underlying basis remains
obscure. We explored the utility of human high-density oligonucleotide arrays to 
survey the transcription profile of NHP genomes. Total RNA from prefrontal
cortices of human (Homo sapiens), common chimpanzee (Pan troglodytes),
cynomolgous macaque (Macaca fascicularis), and common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus) was labeled and hybridized to Affymetrix U95A GeneChip probe arrays.
Corresponding data obtained previously from common chimpanzee and orangutan
(Pongo pygmaeus) were added for comparison. Qualitative (present or not detected)
and quantitative (expression level) analysis indicated that many genes known to
be involved in human neurological disorders were present and regulated in NHPs. A
gene involved in dopamine metabolism (catechol-O-methyltransferase) was absent in
macaque and marmoset. Glutamate receptor 2 was up-regulated, and
transcription-associated genes were down-regulated in NHPs compared with humans. 
We demonstrate that transcript profiling of NHPs could provide comparative
genomic data to validate and better focus experimental animal models of human
neurological disorders.

DOI: 10.1096/fj.02-0681fje 
PMID: 12626435  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

