

2961. FASEB J. 2003 May;17(8):929-31. Epub 2003 Mar 5.

Microarray analysis of nonhuman primates: validation of experimental models in
neurological disorders.

Marvanová M(1), Ménager J, Bezard E, Bontrop RE, Pradier L, Wong G.

Author information: 
(1)Functional Genomics and Bioinformatics Laboratory, Department of Neurobiology,
A. I. Virtanen Institute, University of Kuopio, 70211 Kuopio, Finland.

Nonhuman primates (NHPs) have provided robust experimental animal models for many
human-related diseases due to their similar physiologies. Nonetheless, profound
differences remain in the acquisition, progression, and outcome of important
diseases such as AIDS and Alzheimer's, for which the underlying basis remains
obscure. We explored the utility of human high-density oligonucleotide arrays to 
survey the transcription profile of NHP genomes. Total RNA from prefrontal
cortices of human (Homo sapiens), common chimpanzee (Pan troglodytes),
cynomolgous macaque (Macaca fascicularis), and common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus) was labeled and hybridized to Affymetrix U95A GeneChip probe arrays.
Corresponding data obtained previously from common chimpanzee and orangutan
(Pongo pygmaeus) were added for comparison. Qualitative (present or not detected)
and quantitative (expression level) analysis indicated that many genes known to
be involved in human neurological disorders were present and regulated in NHPs. A
gene involved in dopamine metabolism (catechol-O-methyltransferase) was absent in
macaque and marmoset. Glutamate receptor 2 was up-regulated, and
transcription-associated genes were down-regulated in NHPs compared with humans. 
We demonstrate that transcript profiling of NHPs could provide comparative
genomic data to validate and better focus experimental animal models of human
neurological disorders.

DOI: 10.1096/fj.02-0681fje 
PMID: 12626435  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2962. J Clin Microbiol. 2003 Mar;41(3):1225-34.

Characterization of monkey enteropathogenic Escherichia coli (EPEC) and human
typical and atypical EPEC serotype isolates from neotropical nonhuman primates.

Carvalho VM(1), Gyles CL, Ziebell K, Ribeiro MA, Catão-Dias JL, Sinhorini IL,
Otman J, Keller R, Trabulsi LR, Pestana de Castro AF.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Microbiologia, Instituto de Ciências Biomédicas, Universidade 
de São Paulo, São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil.

Enteropathogenic Escherichia coli (EPEC) has been associated with infantile
diarrhea and mortality in humans in developing countries. While diarrhea is also 
a major problem among primates kept in captivity, the role of E. coli is unclear.
This study was designed to characterize diarrheagenic E. coli recovered from the 
feces of 56 New World nonhuman primates, primarily marmosets (Callithrix spp.).
Seventeen of the 56 primates had signs of diarrhea and/or enteritis. E. coli
recovered from feces from these animals was tested by PCR for genes encoding
virulence factors of diarrheagenic E. coli and for patterns of adherence to HeLa 
cells. In addition, isolates were characterized by the fluorescence actin
staining test and by their ability to induce attaching and effacing lesions. PCR 
for the eae gene was positive in 10 of the 39 (27%) apparently healthy animals
and in 8 of the 17 (47%) animals with diarrhea and/or enteritis. Colonies of
eae(+) E. coli were serotyped and examined by PCR for genes encoding EPEC
virulence markers. The eae(+) E. coli isolates recovered from both healthy and
sick nonhuman primates demonstrated virulence-associated attributes similar to
those of EPEC strains implicated in human disease and are designated monkey EPEC.
The results presented here indicate that EPEC may be a significant pathogen for
nonhuman primates, deserving further investigation. The similarities between the 
affected animals investigated in this study and human EPEC infections suggest
that marmosets may represent an important model for EPEC in humans.

DOI: 10.1128/JCM.41.3.1225-1234.2003 
PMCID: PMC150271
PMID: 12624055  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

