

2962. J Clin Microbiol. 2003 Mar;41(3):1225-34.

Characterization of monkey enteropathogenic Escherichia coli (EPEC) and human
typical and atypical EPEC serotype isolates from neotropical nonhuman primates.

Carvalho VM(1), Gyles CL, Ziebell K, Ribeiro MA, Catão-Dias JL, Sinhorini IL,
Otman J, Keller R, Trabulsi LR, Pestana de Castro AF.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Microbiologia, Instituto de Ciências Biomédicas, Universidade 
de São Paulo, São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil.

Enteropathogenic Escherichia coli (EPEC) has been associated with infantile
diarrhea and mortality in humans in developing countries. While diarrhea is also 
a major problem among primates kept in captivity, the role of E. coli is unclear.
This study was designed to characterize diarrheagenic E. coli recovered from the 
feces of 56 New World nonhuman primates, primarily marmosets (Callithrix spp.).
Seventeen of the 56 primates had signs of diarrhea and/or enteritis. E. coli
recovered from feces from these animals was tested by PCR for genes encoding
virulence factors of diarrheagenic E. coli and for patterns of adherence to HeLa 
cells. In addition, isolates were characterized by the fluorescence actin
staining test and by their ability to induce attaching and effacing lesions. PCR 
for the eae gene was positive in 10 of the 39 (27%) apparently healthy animals
and in 8 of the 17 (47%) animals with diarrhea and/or enteritis. Colonies of
eae(+) E. coli were serotyped and examined by PCR for genes encoding EPEC
virulence markers. The eae(+) E. coli isolates recovered from both healthy and
sick nonhuman primates demonstrated virulence-associated attributes similar to
those of EPEC strains implicated in human disease and are designated monkey EPEC.
The results presented here indicate that EPEC may be a significant pathogen for
nonhuman primates, deserving further investigation. The similarities between the 
affected animals investigated in this study and human EPEC infections suggest
that marmosets may represent an important model for EPEC in humans.

DOI: 10.1128/JCM.41.3.1225-1234.2003 
PMCID: PMC150271
PMID: 12624055  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2963. Horm Behav. 2003 Jan;43(1):67-82.

Are subordinates always stressed? A comparative analysis of rank differences in
cortisol levels among primates.

Abbott DH(1), Keverne EB, Bercovitch FB, Shively CA, Mendoza SP, Saltzman W,
Snowdon CT, Ziegler TE, Banjevic M, Garland T Jr, Sapolsky RM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics/Gynecology, University of Wisconsin, Madison,WI
53706, USA.

Among primate species there is pronounced variation in the relationship between
social status and measures of stress physiology. An informal meta-analysis was
designed to investigate the basis of this diversity across different primate
societies. Species were included only if a substantial amount of published
information was available regarding both social behavior and rank-related
differences in stress physiology. Four Old World and three New World species met 
these criteria, including societies varying from small-group, singular
cooperative breeders (common marmoset and cotton top tamarin) to large-troop,
multi-male, multi-female polygynous mating systems (rhesus, cynomolgus, talapoin,
squirrel monkeys, and olive baboon). A questionnaire was formulated to obtain
information necessary to characterize the stress milieu for individuals in
particular primate societies. We standardized cortisol values within each species
by calculating the ratio of basal cortisol concentrations of subordinates to
those of dominants in stable dominance hierarchies and expressing the ratio as a 
percentage (relative cortisol levels). The meta-analysis identified two variables
that significantly predicted relative cortisol levels: subordinates exhibited
higher relative cortisol levels when they (1). were subjected to higher rates of 
stressors, and (2). experienced decreased opportunities for social (including
close kin) support. These findings have important implications for understanding 
the different physiological consequences of dominant and subordinate social
status across primate societies and how social rank may differ in its behavioral 
and physiological manifestations among primate societies.

DOI: 10.1016/s0018-506x(02)00037-5 
PMID: 12614636  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

