

2963. Horm Behav. 2003 Jan;43(1):67-82.

Are subordinates always stressed? A comparative analysis of rank differences in
cortisol levels among primates.

Abbott DH(1), Keverne EB, Bercovitch FB, Shively CA, Mendoza SP, Saltzman W,
Snowdon CT, Ziegler TE, Banjevic M, Garland T Jr, Sapolsky RM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics/Gynecology, University of Wisconsin, Madison,WI
53706, USA.

Among primate species there is pronounced variation in the relationship between
social status and measures of stress physiology. An informal meta-analysis was
designed to investigate the basis of this diversity across different primate
societies. Species were included only if a substantial amount of published
information was available regarding both social behavior and rank-related
differences in stress physiology. Four Old World and three New World species met 
these criteria, including societies varying from small-group, singular
cooperative breeders (common marmoset and cotton top tamarin) to large-troop,
multi-male, multi-female polygynous mating systems (rhesus, cynomolgus, talapoin,
squirrel monkeys, and olive baboon). A questionnaire was formulated to obtain
information necessary to characterize the stress milieu for individuals in
particular primate societies. We standardized cortisol values within each species
by calculating the ratio of basal cortisol concentrations of subordinates to
those of dominants in stable dominance hierarchies and expressing the ratio as a 
percentage (relative cortisol levels). The meta-analysis identified two variables
that significantly predicted relative cortisol levels: subordinates exhibited
higher relative cortisol levels when they (1). were subjected to higher rates of 
stressors, and (2). experienced decreased opportunities for social (including
close kin) support. These findings have important implications for understanding 
the different physiological consequences of dominant and subordinate social
status across primate societies and how social rank may differ in its behavioral 
and physiological manifestations among primate societies.

DOI: 10.1016/s0018-506x(02)00037-5 
PMID: 12614636  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2964. J Neurophysiol. 2003 Apr;89(4):2194-207. Epub 2002 Dec 11.

Sensory-motor interaction in the primate auditory cortex during self-initiated
vocalizations.

Eliades SJ(1), Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.

Little is known about sensory-motor interaction in the auditory cortex of
primates at the level of single neurons and its role in supporting vocal
communication. The present study investigated single-unit activities in the
auditory cortex of a vocal primate, the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus),
during self-initiated vocalizations. We found that 1) self-initiated
vocalizations resulted in suppression of neural discharges in a majority of
auditory cortical neurons. The vocalization-induced inhibition suppressed both
spontaneous and stimulus-driven discharges. Suppressed units responded poorly to 
external acoustic stimuli during vocalization. 2) Vocalization-induced
suppression began several hundred milliseconds prior to the onset of
vocalization. 3) The suppression of cortical discharges reduced neural firings to
below the rates expected from a unit's rate-level function, adjusted for known
subcortical attenuation, and therefore was likely not entirely caused by
subcortical attenuation mechanisms. 4) A smaller population of auditory cortical 
neurons showed increased discharges during self-initiated vocalizations. This
vocalization-related excitation began after the onset of vocalization and is
likely the result of acoustic feedback. Units showing this excitation responded
nearly normally to external stimuli during vocalization. Based on these findings,
we propose that the suppression of auditory cortical neurons, possibly
originating from cortical vocal production centers, acts to increase the dynamic 
range of cortical responses to vocalization feedback for self monitoring. The
excitatory responses, on the other hand, likely play a role in maintaining
hearing sensitivity to the external acoustic environment during vocalization.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00627.2002 
PMID: 12612021  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

