

2967. Biol Reprod. 2003 Jul;69(1):75-80. Epub 2003 Feb 19.

A new subclass of the luteinizing hormone/chorionic gonadotropin receptor lacking
exon 10 messenger RNA in the New World monkey (Platyrrhini) lineage.

Gromoll J(1), Wistuba J, Terwort N, Godmann M, Müller T, Simoni M.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Reproductive Medicine of the University, University of Münster,
D-48129 Münster, Germany. gromolji@uni-muenster.de

The luteinizing hormone receptor (LHR) plays an essential role as a mediator of
LH and CG action during embryonic sexual differentiation and in gametogenesis. In
a hypogonadal male patient, we recently demonstrated that a genomic deletion of
exon 10, located in the hinge region of the extracellular domain, results in
discrimination of LH and hCG action. In the common marmoset (Calltithrix
jacchus), exon 10 of the LHR is naturally missing at the mRNA level. In order to 
investigate whether this is an isolated species-specific phenomenon, we performed
a phylogenetic screening, searching for the presence of LHR exon 10 mRNA in a
number of primate species representative for the major lineages of primate
evolution. The expressed LHR region encompassing exon 10 was amplified from
testicular tissue by RT-PCR, cloned, and sequenced. In addition, we performed
Southern blot analysis of the LHR of selected New World and Old World primates.
The results revealed that exon 10 mRNA is lacking in the complete New World
monkey (Platyrrhini) lineage but is present in both more primitive and more
advanced primates. However, exon 10 seems to be present at the genomic level,
arguing for a splicing failure possibly due to a genomic mutation or the lack of 
appropriate splicing factors. Considering that, in the human, LH is far less
active than hCG on the LHR lacking exon 10, we addressed the question whether the
existence of such a receptor has any consequences on the dual hormone LH/CG
system present in Platyrrhini. Using primers specific for the known marmoset CG
beta cDNA, we amplified the CG beta subunit cDNA from male common marmoset
pituitaries by RT-PCR, while LH beta could not be amplified, suggesting a
possible physiological role of pituitary CG in this species. In conclusion, we
demonstrated for the first time that the LH mRNA without exon10 is the natural
wild-type LHR in the Platyrrhini lineage. We propose that this LHR represents a
new subclass of receptors that should be named LHR type II. In addition, the high
expression of CG beta in the marmoset pituitary suggests a physiological role of 
CG in the reproductive function of these primates beyond pregnancy.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod.102.014902 
PMID: 12606382  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2968. Lab Anim (NY). 2003 Mar;32(3):32-8.

Response to novel objects and foraging tasks by common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus) female pairs.

Majolo B(1), Buchanan-Smith HM, Bell J.

Author information: 
(1)Scottish Primate Research Group, Department of Psychology, University of
Stirling, Stirling FK9 4LA, Scotland, UK. BESBMAJO@livjm.ac.uk

The authors analyze the effects of enrichment devices on the behavior of common
marmoset female pairs, and determine which aspects of these devices are more
likely to elicit explorative behaviors, and how their presence affects aggressive
and stress-related behaviors. The results support the use of enrichment devices
for captive primates and show that in marmosets, their effectiveness strongly
depends on location within the enclosure and the presence of hidden food.

DOI: 10.1038/laban0303-32 
PMID: 12601387  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

