

2969. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2003 Mar 4;100(5):2884-9. Epub 2003 Feb 24.

Nigrostriatal alpha-synucleinopathy induced by viral vector-mediated
overexpression of human alpha-synuclein: a new primate model of Parkinson's
disease.

Kirik D(1), Annett LE, Burger C, Muzyczka N, Mandel RJ, Björklund A.

Author information: 
(1)Wallenberg Neuroscience Center, Department of Physiological Sciences, Division
of Neurobiology, Lund University, BMC A11, 221 84 Lund, Sweden.
deniz.kirik@mphy.lu.se

We used a high-titer recombinant adeno-associated virus (rAAV) vector to express 
WT or mutant human alpha-synuclein in the substantia nigra of adult marmosets.
The alpha-synuclein protein was expressed in 90-95% of all nigral dopamine
neurons and distributed by anterograde transport throughout their axonal and
dendritic projections. The transduced neurons developed severe neuronal
pathology, including alpha-synuclein-positive cytoplasmic inclusions and granular
deposits; swollen, dystrophic, and fragmented neuritis; and shrunken and
pyknotic, densely alpha-synuclein-positive perikarya. By 16 wk posttransduction, 
30-60% of the tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons were lost, and the tyrosine
hydroxylase-positive innervation of the caudate nucleus and putamen was reduced
to a similar extent. The rAAV-alpha-synuclein-treated monkeys developed a type of
motor impairment, i.e., head position bias, compatible with this magnitude of
nigrostriatal damage. rAAV vector-mediated alpha-synuclein gene transfer provides
a transgenic primate model of nigrostriatal alpha-synucleinopathy that is of
particular interest because it develops slowly over time, like human Parkinson's 
disease (PD), and expresses neuropathological features (alpha-synuclein-positive 
inclusions and dystrophic neurites, in particular) that are similar to those seen
in idiopathic PD. This model offers new opportunities for the study of
pathogenetic mechanisms and exploration of new therapeutic targets of particular 
relevance to human PD.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.0536383100 
PMCID: PMC151435
PMID: 12601150  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2970. Toxicol Pathol. 2003 Jan-Feb;31 Suppl:123-7.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) as a model in toxicology.

Zühlke U(1), Weinbauer G.

Author information: 
(1)Covance Laboratories GmbH, 48163 Münster, Germany.

The common marmoset, Callithrix jacchus, is the smallest nonhuman primate
commonly used in biomedical research. Marmoset characteristics and propensities
have enabled them to be used in a wide range of research as a model of human
disease, physiology, drug metabolism, general toxicology, and reproductive
biology. This paper provides a general overview of the marmoset with special
emphasis on the benefits and disadvantages of this species as a model for
inclusion in preclinical drug development programmes. In view of its small size
in comparison with other nonrodent species marmosets have become of value for
toxicology studies with biotechnology products where compound supply is limited. 
In general toxicology studies, marmosets have been successfully used to meet
regulatory endpoints also for specific investigatory purposes. The widespread use
of this species has allowed extensive background information to become available 
and a summary of the most frequently measured parameters are presented. Marmosets
apparently represent an interesting animal model for comparative research on
primate reproductive physiology. However, several basic aspects of reproductive
processes exhibit cardinal discrepancies to those described for macaques and
human. Thus, from the viewpoint of reproductive toxicology, the relevance of the 
marmoset primate model for human reproduction remains unclear to date and further
research is obviously needed. Given our current knowledge of marmoset
reproductive features, the use of this animal model cannot be recommended for
reproductive toxicology assessment.

DOI: 10.1080/01926230390175002 
PMID: 12597440  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

