

297. J Anat. 2020 Nov;237(5):907-915. doi: 10.1111/joa.13250. Epub 2020 Jun 25.

Muscle-tendon arrangement and innervation pattern of the m. flexor digitorum
superficialis in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), squirrel monkey
(Saimiri sciureus) and spider monkey (Ateles sp.).

Emura K(1), Hirasaki E(2), Arakawa T(3).

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Health Care Sciences, Himeji Dokkyo University, Himeji, Japan.
(2)Primate Research Institute, Kyoto University, Inuyama, Japan.
(3)Department of Rehabilitation Science, Kobe University Graduate School of
Health Sciences, Kobe, Japan.

The muscle-tendon arrangement of the m. flexor digitorum superficialis (FDS)
varies among different primate groups. Recent developmental investigations
revealed that the primordium of FDS emerges in the hand region first and
relocates to the forearm later. The relationship between the diverse
muscle-tendon arrangement and the characteristic developmental process of FDS is 
important for understanding the evolutionary changes of the FDS. Moreover, the
innervation pattern cannot go unremarked when discussing the muscle homology and 
evolution. We examined the muscle-tendon arrangement and intramuscular nerve
distribution of the FDS in three genera of Platyrrhini: three common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus), two squirrel monkeys (Saimiri sciureus) and two spider
monkeys (Ateles sp.). We observed that the FDS consisted of multiple muscle
bellies. The origin of the muscle bellies to digits II and V varied, whereas
muscle bellies to digits III and IV consistently originated from the medial
epicondyle. The muscle-tendon arrangement of the FDS differed among the three
genera owing to the different origins of muscle bellies to digits II and V. In
all the examined specimens, the muscle bellies to digits II and/or III were
innervated by the direct nerve branches from the median nerve. However, the
muscle bellies to digits IV and V never received direct nerve branches from the
median nerve. Nerve branches within the belly to digit III extended into the
belly to digit IV, and one nerve branch within the belly to digit IV extended
into the belly to digit V. These consistent nerve distribution patterns suggest
that different patterns of FDS muscle-tendon arrangement have changed from that
of a common ancestral condition. It is plausible that the diverse origins of
muscle bellies in the FDS are attributable to the difference in the destination
for the relocation of the muscle bellies during developmental processes.

© 2020 Anatomical Society.

DOI: 10.1111/joa.13250 
PMCID: PMC7542189 [Available on 2022-11-01]
PMID: 32584452  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


298. J Neurosci Methods. 2020 Sep 1;343:108823. doi: 10.1016/j.jneumeth.2020.108823.
Epub 2020 Jun 21.

Novel imaging technology and procedures for studying brain function in
preadolescent awake marmosets.

Ziegler TE(1), Kulkarni P(2), Ash H(3), Cai X(2), Elizabeth Mayerand M(4), Rauch 
B(4), Ferris CF(2).

Author information: 
(1)Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin, Madison, 
WI, United States. Electronic address: ziegler@primate.wisc.edu.
(2)Center for Translational NeuroImaging, Northeastern University, Boston, MA,
United States.
(3)Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin, Madison, 
WI, United States.
(4)Department of Medical Physics & Biomedical Engineering, University of
Wisconsin, Madison, WI, United States.

BACKGROUND: Novel imaging technology and procedures were developed to study brain
function in preadolescent awake marmosets never exposed to anesthesia.
METHODS: A radiofrequency transmit and receive, head only volume coil was
designed and integrated into a holding system. An acclimation procedure was
developed without the use of anesthesia or sedation that allowed for awake
imaging. Preadolescent 8-month old male and female marmosets were imaged for
resting state BOLD functional connectivity to assess the status of the default
mode network. Levels of reactivity during acclimation sessions and behavioral
stress following imaging were assessed.
RESULTS: Data on functional coupling in the default mode network suggest the
organization of connectivity to the prefrontal cortex is not fully developed at 8
months of age. The stress associated with the imaging procedure is comparable to 
that observed when marmosets are removed from their home cage and temporarily
isolated from the family.
COMPARISON TO OTHER METHODS: The design of the radiofrequency coil provides B1
homogeneity across the entire brain without signal drop off. The unique design of
the head cradle obviates the need for any stabilizing surgery, ear bars or bite
bar and could be adapted to any size marmoset. The acclimation requires no
anesthesia or sedation at any time in the early life of the developing marmoset, 
a condition that better reflects the human experience.
CONCLUSION: A method is provided for imaging functional activity in the brain of 
fully awake preadolescent marmosets without any history of anesthesia or
sedation.

Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jneumeth.2020.108823 
PMCID: PMC7415661
PMID: 32580061  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest CFF has a
financial interest in Animal Imaging Research, the company that makes the RF
electronics and holders for animal imaging.

