

2970. Toxicol Pathol. 2003 Jan-Feb;31 Suppl:123-7.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) as a model in toxicology.

Zühlke U(1), Weinbauer G.

Author information: 
(1)Covance Laboratories GmbH, 48163 Münster, Germany.

The common marmoset, Callithrix jacchus, is the smallest nonhuman primate
commonly used in biomedical research. Marmoset characteristics and propensities
have enabled them to be used in a wide range of research as a model of human
disease, physiology, drug metabolism, general toxicology, and reproductive
biology. This paper provides a general overview of the marmoset with special
emphasis on the benefits and disadvantages of this species as a model for
inclusion in preclinical drug development programmes. In view of its small size
in comparison with other nonrodent species marmosets have become of value for
toxicology studies with biotechnology products where compound supply is limited. 
In general toxicology studies, marmosets have been successfully used to meet
regulatory endpoints also for specific investigatory purposes. The widespread use
of this species has allowed extensive background information to become available 
and a summary of the most frequently measured parameters are presented. Marmosets
apparently represent an interesting animal model for comparative research on
primate reproductive physiology. However, several basic aspects of reproductive
processes exhibit cardinal discrepancies to those described for macaques and
human. Thus, from the viewpoint of reproductive toxicology, the relevance of the 
marmoset primate model for human reproduction remains unclear to date and further
research is obviously needed. Given our current knowledge of marmoset
reproductive features, the use of this animal model cannot be recommended for
reproductive toxicology assessment.

DOI: 10.1080/01926230390175002 
PMID: 12597440  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2971. Psychopharmacology (Berl). 2003 Mar;166(3):212-20. Epub 2003 Feb 13.

Assessment of a combination of physostigmine and scopolamine as pretreatment
against the behavioural effects of organophosphates in the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus).

Muggleton NG(1), Bowditch AP, Crofts HS, Scott EA, Pearce PC.

Author information: 
(1)Psychopharmacology Unit, School of Medical Sciences, University Walk, BS8 1TD,
Bristol, UK. neil.muggleton@psy.ox.ac.uk

RATIONALE: There is a requirement to ensure that UK armed forces are provided
with the best possible medical countermeasures to prevent or mitigate the effects
of exposure to nerve agents. When pretreatments are under consideration, it is of
particular importance to ensure that they do not in themselves give rise to
adverse effects and do not exacerbate the effects of agent exposure.
OBJECTIVES: The present study was designed to address these considerations for a 
combination of physostigmine and scopolamine as a potential pretreatment regimen.
METHODS: Common marmosets were trained to perform a two-choice discrimination
serial reversal task, and baseline data were collected. Subjects received a dose 
of either soman or sarin after 2 weeks of pretreatment with either saline or
physostigmine and scopolamine via miniosmotic pump.
RESULTS: No effects of physostigmine and scopolamine were seen on task accuracy
or response rates. Neither accuracy of reversal performance nor number of
responses made were significantly changed by administration of either soman or
sarin subsequent to pretreatment with physostigmine/scopolamine. In the groups
pretreated with saline, performance of the behavioural task, in terms of
responses made, was virtually abolished on the day the OP was administered, but a
significant increase in accuracy of performance was seen over the 2- to 14-day
period following administration.
CONCLUSIONS: A combination of physostigmine and scopolamine, which is known to
protect against nerve-agent lethality, offers protection against the effects of
soman and sarin on behavioural performance, as measured by a discrimination
reversal task. The improved performance observed following nerve agent requires
further investigation.

DOI: 10.1007/s00213-002-1324-7 
PMID: 12589520  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

