

2971. Psychopharmacology (Berl). 2003 Mar;166(3):212-20. Epub 2003 Feb 13.

Assessment of a combination of physostigmine and scopolamine as pretreatment
against the behavioural effects of organophosphates in the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus).

Muggleton NG(1), Bowditch AP, Crofts HS, Scott EA, Pearce PC.

Author information: 
(1)Psychopharmacology Unit, School of Medical Sciences, University Walk, BS8 1TD,
Bristol, UK. neil.muggleton@psy.ox.ac.uk

RATIONALE: There is a requirement to ensure that UK armed forces are provided
with the best possible medical countermeasures to prevent or mitigate the effects
of exposure to nerve agents. When pretreatments are under consideration, it is of
particular importance to ensure that they do not in themselves give rise to
adverse effects and do not exacerbate the effects of agent exposure.
OBJECTIVES: The present study was designed to address these considerations for a 
combination of physostigmine and scopolamine as a potential pretreatment regimen.
METHODS: Common marmosets were trained to perform a two-choice discrimination
serial reversal task, and baseline data were collected. Subjects received a dose 
of either soman or sarin after 2 weeks of pretreatment with either saline or
physostigmine and scopolamine via miniosmotic pump.
RESULTS: No effects of physostigmine and scopolamine were seen on task accuracy
or response rates. Neither accuracy of reversal performance nor number of
responses made were significantly changed by administration of either soman or
sarin subsequent to pretreatment with physostigmine/scopolamine. In the groups
pretreated with saline, performance of the behavioural task, in terms of
responses made, was virtually abolished on the day the OP was administered, but a
significant increase in accuracy of performance was seen over the 2- to 14-day
period following administration.
CONCLUSIONS: A combination of physostigmine and scopolamine, which is known to
protect against nerve-agent lethality, offers protection against the effects of
soman and sarin on behavioural performance, as measured by a discrimination
reversal task. The improved performance observed following nerve agent requires
further investigation.

DOI: 10.1007/s00213-002-1324-7 
PMID: 12589520  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2972. Science. 2003 Feb 14;299(5609):1073-5.

Contrast tuning in auditory cortex.

Barbour DL(1), Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, 720 Rutland Avenue, 424 Ross Building,
Baltimore, MD 21205, USA. dbarbour@bme.jhu.edu

The acoustic features useful for converting auditory information into perceived
objects are poorly understood. Although auditory cortex neurons have been
described as being narrowly tuned and preferentially responsive to narrowband
signals, naturally occurring sounds are generally wideband with unique spectral
energy profiles. Through the use of parametric wideband acoustic stimuli, we
found that such neurons in awake marmoset monkeys respond vigorously to wideband 
sounds having complex spectral shapes, preferring stimuli of either high or low
spectral contrast. Low contrast-preferring neurons cannot be studied thoroughly
with narrowband stimuli and have not been previously described. These findings
indicate that spectral contrast reflects an important stimulus decomposition in
auditory cortex and may contribute to the recognition of acoustic objects.

DOI: 10.1126/science.1080425 
PMCID: PMC1868436
PMID: 12586943  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

