

2973. Contraception. 2003 Feb;67(2):151-60.

Antifertility effect of an octapeptide, a fragment of FSH binding inhibitor, in
the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Wadia P(1), Kholkute S, Nandedkar T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology, National Institute for Research in Reproductive
Health, J M Street, Parel, Mumbai 400012, India.

The follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) binding inhibitor (FSHBI) has been
identified as one of the factors present in follicular fluid exerting
autocrine/paracrine effects on FSH actions in the ovary. Our group has isolated
FSHBI from human ovarian follicular fluid and deduced its partial amino acid
sequence from the N-terminal region. A synthetic peptide corresponding to this
sequence also demonstrated FSH binding inhibitory activity in vitro. The
objective of the present study was to elucidate the effect of the octapeptide on 
ovarian cyclicity and pregnancy in the common marmoset. For the study, three
groups of postpartum marmosets were treated with the octapeptide during the
follicular phase. Administration of the octapeptide from days 6-10 postpartum
(pp) predominantly induced luteal insufficiency in two of seven and two of five
marmosets at a dose of 100 microg/day (group 1) and 300 microg/day (group 2),
respectively. This was confirmed by the presence of small regressing corpora
lutea on day 13 pp. Pregnancy was terminated prematurely in one animal from each 
of these groups. The treatment impaired fertility by 43% and 60% in the marmosets
of groups 1 and 2, respectively. In view of the fact that FSH levels peak on day 
2 and day 6 of the follicular phase in marmosets, a third group was administered 
200 microg/day octapeptide from days 1-8 pp. The treatment induced luteal
insufficiency in one out of four marmosets, while premature termination of
pregnancy occurred in two other marmosets of this group, demonstrating a 75%
effect on pregnancy. Thus, treatment of marmosets with the octapeptide, a
fragment of the FSHBI, predominantly induced luteal insufficiency as well as
resorption of the fetus leading to impairment of fertility.

DOI: 10.1016/s0010-7824(02)00458-4 
PMID: 12586325  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2974. Neuroscience. 2003;116(3):831-50.

The chemo- and somatotopic architecture of the Galago cuneate and gracile nuclei.

Strata F(1), Coq JO, Kaas JH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN 37203, USA.

The pattern of peripheral nerve inputs into the dorsal column nuclei, cuneate and
gracile, was investigated in the prosimian Galago garnetti. The major findings
were, that there is a greater segregation of the inputs from the fingers/hand
within the cuneate compared with input form the toes/foot within the gracile. In 
both nuclei, cell clusters can be identified as cytochrome oxidase dense
blotches, reactive also for the activity-dependent enzyme nitric oxide synthase. 
In the cuneate, cell clusters were apparent as six main cytochrome oxidase/nitric
oxide synthase-reactive ovals arranged in a medial to lateral sequence. In
contrast in the gracile, a higher degree of parcellation was noted and several
cytochrome oxidase/nitric oxide synthase blotches were distributed along the
rostrocaudal axis of the nucleus. This different architecture parallels
differences in the organization of the inputs from the hand and from the foot. In
the cuneate, cholera toxin B subunit conjugated to horseradish peroxydase labeled
terminals from the glabrous and hairy skin of digits d1 to d5 segregated in each 
of the five most lateral cytochrome oxidase/nitric oxide synthase blotches.
Afferents from the thenar, palmar pads and hypothenar overlapped with those from 
digit 1, digit 2 to digit 4 and digit 5, respectively. Inputs from wrist arm and 
shoulder were segregated in the most medial blotch. In the gracile, multiple foci
of cholera toxin B subunit conjugated to horseradish peroxydase labeled terminals
were observed upon injections of single sites in the toes or plantar pads.
Although in multiple foci, inputs from different toes segregated from one another
as well. Terminals from the plantar pads appeared to converge on the same
cytochrome oxidase/nitric oxide synthase blotches targeted by inputs from the
toes. In both the cuneate and the gracile, cytochrome oxidase/nitric oxide
synthase blotches also presented intense immunoreactivity for GABA, calbindin,
parvalbumin, and brain derived neurotrophic factor. Finally, in the cuneate the
cell cluster region presented similarities in prosimian galagos and four species 
of New World monkeys, whereas it appeared more differentiated and complex in the 
Old Word macaque monkeys. In conclusion, the different pattern of segregation of 
the inputs from the hand and from the foot can be related to the different
metabolic organization of the cuneate and of the gracile, respectively.

DOI: 10.1016/s0306-4522(02)00694-2 
PMID: 12573723  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

