

298. J Neurosci Methods. 2020 Sep 1;343:108823. doi: 10.1016/j.jneumeth.2020.108823.
Epub 2020 Jun 21.

Novel imaging technology and procedures for studying brain function in
preadolescent awake marmosets.

Ziegler TE(1), Kulkarni P(2), Ash H(3), Cai X(2), Elizabeth Mayerand M(4), Rauch 
B(4), Ferris CF(2).

Author information: 
(1)Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin, Madison, 
WI, United States. Electronic address: ziegler@primate.wisc.edu.
(2)Center for Translational NeuroImaging, Northeastern University, Boston, MA,
United States.
(3)Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin, Madison, 
WI, United States.
(4)Department of Medical Physics & Biomedical Engineering, University of
Wisconsin, Madison, WI, United States.

BACKGROUND: Novel imaging technology and procedures were developed to study brain
function in preadolescent awake marmosets never exposed to anesthesia.
METHODS: A radiofrequency transmit and receive, head only volume coil was
designed and integrated into a holding system. An acclimation procedure was
developed without the use of anesthesia or sedation that allowed for awake
imaging. Preadolescent 8-month old male and female marmosets were imaged for
resting state BOLD functional connectivity to assess the status of the default
mode network. Levels of reactivity during acclimation sessions and behavioral
stress following imaging were assessed.
RESULTS: Data on functional coupling in the default mode network suggest the
organization of connectivity to the prefrontal cortex is not fully developed at 8
months of age. The stress associated with the imaging procedure is comparable to 
that observed when marmosets are removed from their home cage and temporarily
isolated from the family.
COMPARISON TO OTHER METHODS: The design of the radiofrequency coil provides B1
homogeneity across the entire brain without signal drop off. The unique design of
the head cradle obviates the need for any stabilizing surgery, ear bars or bite
bar and could be adapted to any size marmoset. The acclimation requires no
anesthesia or sedation at any time in the early life of the developing marmoset, 
a condition that better reflects the human experience.
CONCLUSION: A method is provided for imaging functional activity in the brain of 
fully awake preadolescent marmosets without any history of anesthesia or
sedation.

Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jneumeth.2020.108823 
PMCID: PMC7415661
PMID: 32580061  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest CFF has a
financial interest in Animal Imaging Research, the company that makes the RF
electronics and holders for animal imaging.


299. Cell Rep. 2020 Jun 23;31(12):107799. doi: 10.1016/j.celrep.2020.107799.

Recently Evolved Enhancers Emerge with High Interindividual Variability and Less 
Frequently Associate with Disease.

Castelijns B(1), Baak ML(1), Geeven G(1), Vermunt MW(1), Wiggers CRM(2),
Timpanaro IS(1), Kondova I(3), de Laat W(1), Creyghton MP(4).

Author information: 
(1)Hubrecht Institute-KNAW & University Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht, the
Netherlands.
(2)Hubrecht Institute-KNAW & University Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht, the
Netherlands; Department of Pediatric Hematology, University Medical Center
Utrecht, Utrecht, the Netherlands.
(3)Biomedical Primate Research Center, Lange Kleiweg 161, 2288GJ Rijswijk, the
Netherlands.
(4)Hubrecht Institute-KNAW & University Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht, the
Netherlands; Erasmus University Medical Center, Department of Developmental
Biology, Wytemaweg 80, 3015 CN Rotterdam, the Netherlands. Electronic address:
m.creyghton@erasmusmc.nl.

Mutations in non-coding regulatory DNA such as enhancers underlie a wide variety 
of diseases including developmental disorders and cancer. As enhancers rapidly
evolve, understanding their function and configuration in non-human disease
models can have important clinical applications. Here, we analyze enhancer
configurations in tissues isolated from the common marmoset, a widely used
primate model for human disease. Integrating these data with human and mouse
data, we find that enhancers containing trait-associated variants are
preferentially conserved. In contrast, most human-specific enhancers are highly
variable between individuals, with a subset failing to contact promoters. These
are located further away from genes and more often reside in inactive
B-compartments. Our data show that enhancers typically emerge as instable
elements with minimal biological impact prior to their integration in a
transcriptional program. Furthermore, our data provide insight into which trait
variations in enhancers can be faithfully modeled using the common marmoset.

Copyright © 2020 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.celrep.2020.107799 
PMID: 32579926  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Interests The authors declare no
competing interests.

