

2980. Anal Sci. 2003 Jan;19(1):67-71.

In vivo imaging of brain dopaminergic neurotransmission system in small animals
with high-resolution single photon emission computed tomography.

Saji H(1), Iida Y, Kawashima H, Ogawa M, Kitamura Y, Mukai T, Shimazu S, Yoneda
F.

Author information: 
(1)Graduate School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Kyoto University, Yoshida,
Sakyo-ku, Kyoto 606-8501, Japan. hsaji@pharm.kyoto-u.ac.jp

High-resolution single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) provides a
unique capability to image the biodistribution of radiolabeled molecules in small
laboratory animals. Thus, we applied the high-resolution SPECT to in vivo imaging
of the brain dopaminergic neurotransmission system in common marmosets using two 
radiolabeled ligands, [123I]2beta-carbomethoxy-3beta-(4-iodophenyl)tropane
(beta-CIT) as a dopamine transporter (DAT) ligand and [123I]iodobenzamide (IBZM) 
as a dopamine D2 receptor (D2R) ligand. Specific images of the striatum, a region
with a high density of dopaminergic synapses, were obtained at 240 min and 60 min
after injection of [123I]beta-CIT and [123I]IBZM, respectively. Furthermore, a
significantly low accumulation of [123I]beta-CIT in the striatum was observed in 
MPTP-treated animals compared with results for a control group, and a similar
accumulation in the control group was observed with the pretreatment of deprenyl 
in the MPTP-treated animals. However, the striatal accumulation of [123I]IBZM
showed no changes among the control, MPTP-treated, and deprenyl-MPTP-treated
groups. These SPECT imaging results agreed well with those of DA concentration
and motor behavior. Since MPTP destroys nigrostriatal dopamine nerves and
produces irreversible neurodegeneration associated with Parkinsonian syndrome,
SPECT imaging data in this study demonstrated that deprenyl shows its
neuroprotective effect on Parkinsonism by protecting against the destruction of
presynaptic dopamine neurons.

DOI: 10.2116/analsci.19.67 
PMID: 12558026  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2981. Am J Phys Anthropol. 2003 Feb;120(2):153-70.

Comparative functional analysis of skull morphology of tree-gouging primates.

Vinyard CJ(1), Wall CE, Williams SH, Hylander WL.

Author information: 
(1)Duke University Primate Center, Durham, North Carolina 27710, USA.
cvinyard@acpub.duke.edu

Many primates habitually feed on tree exudates such as gums and saps. Among these
exudate feeders, Cebuella pygmaea, Callithrix spp., Phaner furcifer, and most
likely Euoticus elegantulus elicit exudate flow by biting into trees with their
anterior dentition. We define this behavior as gouging. Beyond the recent
publication by Dumont ([1997] Am J Phys Anthropol 102:187-202), there have been
few attempts to address whether any aspect of skull form in gouging primates
relates to this specialized feeding behavior. However, many researchers have
proposed that tree gouging results in larger bite force, larger internal skull
loads, and larger jaw gapes in comparison to other chewing and biting behaviors. 
If true, then we might expect primate gougers to exhibit skull modifications that
provide increased abilities to produce bite forces at the incisors, withstand
loads in the skull, and/or generate large gapes for gouging. We develop 13
morphological predictions based on the expectation that gouging involves
relatively large jaw forces and/or jaw gapes. We compare skull shapes for P.
furcifer to five cheirogaleid taxa, E. elegantulus to six galagid species, and C.
jacchus to two tamarin species, so as to assess whether gouging primates exhibit 
these predicted morphological shapes. Our results show little morphological
evidence for increased force-production or load-resistance abilities in the
skulls of these gouging primates. Conversely, these gougers tend to have skull
shapes that are advantageous for creating large gapes. For example, all three
gouging species have significantly lower condylar heights relative to the
toothrow at a given mandibular length in comparison with closely related,
nongouging taxa. Lowering the height of the condyle relative to the mandibular
toothrow should reduce the stretching of the masseters and medial pterygoids
during jaw opening, as well as position the mandibular incisors more anteriorly
at wide jaw gapes. In other words, the lower incisors will follow a more vertical
trajectory during both jaw opening and closing. We predict, based on these
findings, that tree-gouging primates do not generate unusually large forces, but 
that they do use relatively large gapes during gouging. Of course, in vivo data
on jaw forces and jaw gapes are required to reliably assess skull functions
during gouging.

Copyright 2003 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.10129 
PMID: 12541333  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

