

2981. Am J Phys Anthropol. 2003 Feb;120(2):153-70.

Comparative functional analysis of skull morphology of tree-gouging primates.

Vinyard CJ(1), Wall CE, Williams SH, Hylander WL.

Author information: 
(1)Duke University Primate Center, Durham, North Carolina 27710, USA.
cvinyard@acpub.duke.edu

Many primates habitually feed on tree exudates such as gums and saps. Among these
exudate feeders, Cebuella pygmaea, Callithrix spp., Phaner furcifer, and most
likely Euoticus elegantulus elicit exudate flow by biting into trees with their
anterior dentition. We define this behavior as gouging. Beyond the recent
publication by Dumont ([1997] Am J Phys Anthropol 102:187-202), there have been
few attempts to address whether any aspect of skull form in gouging primates
relates to this specialized feeding behavior. However, many researchers have
proposed that tree gouging results in larger bite force, larger internal skull
loads, and larger jaw gapes in comparison to other chewing and biting behaviors. 
If true, then we might expect primate gougers to exhibit skull modifications that
provide increased abilities to produce bite forces at the incisors, withstand
loads in the skull, and/or generate large gapes for gouging. We develop 13
morphological predictions based on the expectation that gouging involves
relatively large jaw forces and/or jaw gapes. We compare skull shapes for P.
furcifer to five cheirogaleid taxa, E. elegantulus to six galagid species, and C.
jacchus to two tamarin species, so as to assess whether gouging primates exhibit 
these predicted morphological shapes. Our results show little morphological
evidence for increased force-production or load-resistance abilities in the
skulls of these gouging primates. Conversely, these gougers tend to have skull
shapes that are advantageous for creating large gapes. For example, all three
gouging species have significantly lower condylar heights relative to the
toothrow at a given mandibular length in comparison with closely related,
nongouging taxa. Lowering the height of the condyle relative to the mandibular
toothrow should reduce the stretching of the masseters and medial pterygoids
during jaw opening, as well as position the mandibular incisors more anteriorly
at wide jaw gapes. In other words, the lower incisors will follow a more vertical
trajectory during both jaw opening and closing. We predict, based on these
findings, that tree-gouging primates do not generate unusually large forces, but 
that they do use relatively large gapes during gouging. Of course, in vivo data
on jaw forces and jaw gapes are required to reliably assess skull functions
during gouging.

Copyright 2003 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.10129 
PMID: 12541333  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2982. Endocrinology. 2003 Feb;144(2):423-36.

A transcriptionally active human type II gonadotropin-releasing hormone receptor 
gene homolog overlaps two genes in the antisense orientation on chromosome 1q.12.

Morgan K(1), Conklin D, Pawson AJ, Sellar R, Ott TR, Millar RP.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council Human Reproductive Sciences Unit, University of
Edinburgh Academic Centre, Edinburgh EH16 4SB, United Kingdom.
k.morgan@hrsu.mrc.ac.uk

GnRH-II peptide hormone exhibits complete sequence conservation across vertebrate
species, including man. Type-II GnRH receptor genes have been characterized
recently in nonhuman primates, but the human receptor gene homolog contains a
frameshift, a premature stop codon (UGA), and a 3' overlap of the RBM8A gene on
chromosome 1q.12. A retrotransposed pseudogene, RBM8B, retains partial receptor
sequence. In this study, bioinformatics show that the human receptor gene
promoter overlaps the peroxisomal protein 11-beta gene promoter and the premature
UGA is positionally conserved in chimpanzee. A CGA [arginine (Arg)] occurs in
porcine DNA, but UGA is shifted one codon to the 5' direction in bovine DNA,
suggesting independent evolution of premature stop codons. In contrast to
marmoset tissue RNA, exon- and strand-specific probes are required to distinguish
differently spliced human receptor gene transcripts in cell lines (HP75, IMR-32).
RBM8B is not transcribed. Sequencing of cDNAs for spliced receptor mRNAs showed
no evidence for alteration of the premature UGA by RNA editing, but alternative
splicing circumvents the frameshift to encode a two-membrane-domain protein
before this UGA. A stem-loop motif resembling a selenocysteine insertion sequence
and a potential alternative translation initiation site might enable expression
of further proteins involved in interactions within the GnRH system.

DOI: 10.1210/en.2002-220622 
PMID: 12538601  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

