

2982. Endocrinology. 2003 Feb;144(2):423-36.

A transcriptionally active human type II gonadotropin-releasing hormone receptor 
gene homolog overlaps two genes in the antisense orientation on chromosome 1q.12.

Morgan K(1), Conklin D, Pawson AJ, Sellar R, Ott TR, Millar RP.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council Human Reproductive Sciences Unit, University of
Edinburgh Academic Centre, Edinburgh EH16 4SB, United Kingdom.
k.morgan@hrsu.mrc.ac.uk

GnRH-II peptide hormone exhibits complete sequence conservation across vertebrate
species, including man. Type-II GnRH receptor genes have been characterized
recently in nonhuman primates, but the human receptor gene homolog contains a
frameshift, a premature stop codon (UGA), and a 3' overlap of the RBM8A gene on
chromosome 1q.12. A retrotransposed pseudogene, RBM8B, retains partial receptor
sequence. In this study, bioinformatics show that the human receptor gene
promoter overlaps the peroxisomal protein 11-beta gene promoter and the premature
UGA is positionally conserved in chimpanzee. A CGA [arginine (Arg)] occurs in
porcine DNA, but UGA is shifted one codon to the 5' direction in bovine DNA,
suggesting independent evolution of premature stop codons. In contrast to
marmoset tissue RNA, exon- and strand-specific probes are required to distinguish
differently spliced human receptor gene transcripts in cell lines (HP75, IMR-32).
RBM8B is not transcribed. Sequencing of cDNAs for spliced receptor mRNAs showed
no evidence for alteration of the premature UGA by RNA editing, but alternative
splicing circumvents the frameshift to encode a two-membrane-domain protein
before this UGA. A stem-loop motif resembling a selenocysteine insertion sequence
and a potential alternative translation initiation site might enable expression
of further proteins involved in interactions within the GnRH system.

DOI: 10.1210/en.2002-220622 
PMID: 12538601  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2983. Arch Virol. 2003 Jan;148(1):29-44.

Host range of poliovirus is restricted to simians because of a rapid sequence
change of the poliovirus receptor gene during evolution.

Ida-Hosonuma M(1), Sasaki Y, Toyoda H, Nomoto A, Gotoh O, Yonekawa H, Koike S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Tokyo Metropolitan Institute for
Neuroscience, Tokyo, Japan.

The host range of most poliovirus (PV) strains is restricted to simians. This
host range specificity is believed to be determined by the interaction between PV
and its receptor molecule. To elucidate the molecular basis of this
species-specific infection of PV, we cloned orthologs of the PV receptor (PVR)
gene ( pvr) as well as those of PV receptor-related genes 1 and 2 ( prr1 and
prr2) from various mammalian species. These three genes are widely present in
mammalian genomes including those of non-susceptible species. Comparison of the
deduced amino acid sequences of PVR orthologs revealed that the NH(2)-terminal
immunoglobulin-like domain (domain 1), which is the virus binding site in the
human PVR, is highly variable among species, whereas that of PRR1 is highly
conserved. Domain 1 of the PVR orthologs for the ring-tailed lemur and rabbit,
which are not susceptible to PV, show only 51 and 61% amino acid sequence
identity to that of human PVR, respectively. Chimeric PVR proteins that have the 
domain 1 of the ring-tailed lemur and rabbit PVRs failed to serve as receptors
for PV. These results suggest that rapid changes in the domain 1 sequence during 
mammalian evolution determined the host range restriction of PV.

DOI: 10.1007/s00705-002-0910-7 
PMID: 12536294  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

