

2993. Vis Neurosci. 2002 Sep-Oct;19(5):583-92.

Feedback from V1 and inhibition from beyond the classical receptive field
modulates the responses of neurons in the primate lateral geniculate nucleus.

Webb BS(1), Tinsley CJ, Barraclough NE, Easton A, Parker A, Derrington AM.

Author information: 
(1)School of Psychology, University of Nottingham, University Park, Nottingham,
NG7 2RD, United Kingdom. bsw@psychology.nottingham.ac.uk

It is well established that the responses of neurons in the lateral geniculate
nucleus (LGN) can be modulated by feedback from visual cortex, but it is still
unclear how cortico-geniculate afferents regulate the flow of visual information 
to the cortex in the primate. Here we report the effects, on the gain of LGN
neurons, of differentially stimulating the extraclassical receptive field, with
feedback from the striate cortex intact or inactivated in the marmoset monkey,
Callithrix jacchus. A horizontally oriented grating of optimal size, spatial
frequency, and temporal frequency was presented to the classical receptive field.
The grating varied in contrast (range: 0-1) from trial to trial, and was
presented alone, or surrounded by a grating of the same or orthogonal
orientation, contained within either a larger annular field, or flanks oriented
either horizontally or vertically. V1 was ablated to inactivate
cortico-geniculate feedback. The maximum firing rate of LGN neurons was greater
with V1 intact, but was reduced by visually stimulating beyond the classical
receptive field. Large horizontal or vertical annular gratings were most
effective in reducing the maximum firing rate of LGN neurons. Magnocellular
neurons were most susceptible to this inhibition from beyond the classical
receptive field. Extraclassical inhibition was less effective with V1 ablated. We
conclude that inhibition from beyond the classical receptive field reduces the
excitatory influence of V1 in the LGN. The net balance between cortico-geniculate
excitation and inhibition from beyond the classical receptive field is one
mechanism by which signals relayed from the retina to V1 are controlled.

DOI: 10.1017/s0952523802195046 
PMID: 12507325  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2994. Exp Neurol. 2003 Jan;179(1):90-102.

Both short- and long-acting D-1/D-2 dopamine agonists induce less dyskinesia than
L-DOPA in the MPTP-lesioned common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Maratos EC(1), Jackson MJ, Pearce RK, Cannizzaro C, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenenerative Disease Research Centre, Guy's, King's and St. Thomas'
School of Biomedical Sciences, King's College London, London SE1 1UL, United
Kingdom.

The current concept of dyskinesia is that pulsatile stimulation of D-1 or D-2
receptors by L-DOPA or short-acting dopamine agonists is more likely to induce
dyskinesia compared to long-acting drugs producing more continuous receptor
stimulation. We now investigate the ability of two mixed D-1/D-2 agonists, namely
pergolide (long-acting) and apomorphine (short-acting), to induce dyskinesia in
drug-nai;ve MPTP-lesioned primates, compared to L-DOPA. Adult common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus) were lesioned with MPTP (2 mg/kg/day sc for 5 days) and
subsequently treated with equieffective antiparkinsonian doses of L-DOPA,
apomorphine, or pergolide for 28 days. L-DOPA, apomorphine, and pergolide
reversed the MPTP-induced motor deficits to the same degree with no difference in
peak response. L-DOPA and apomorphine had a rapid onset of action and short
duration of effect producing a pulsatile motor response, while pergolide had a
slow onset and long-lasting activity producing a continuous profile of motor
stimulation. L-DOPA rapidly induced dyskinesia that increased markedly in
severity and frequency over the course of the study, impairing normal motor
activity by day 20. Dyskinesia in animals treated with pergolide or apomorphine
increased steadily, reaching mild to moderate severity but remaining
significantly less marked than that produced by L-DOPA. There was no difference
in the intensity of dyskinesia produced by apomorphine and pergolide. These data 
suggest that factors other than duration of drug action may be important in the
induction of dyskinesia but support the use of dopamine agonists in early
Parkinson's disease, as a means of delaying L-DOPA therapy and reducing the risk 
of developing dyskinesia.

DOI: 10.1006/exnr.2002.8055 
PMID: 12504871  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

