

2998. Biol Psychiatry. 2002 Dec 1;52(11):1037-46.

Repeated parental deprivation in the infant common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus, 
primates) and analysis of its effects on early development.

Dettling AC(1), Feldon J, Pryce CR.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Behavioural Neurobiology, Swiss Federal Institute of
Technology, Zurich, Schwerzenbach, Switzerland.

BACKGROUND: We describe a successful demonstration that repeated early
deprivation of parental care (ED), as used to study effects of early life stress 
in rats, can be performed in a primate and that it constitutes an early life
stressor.
METHODS: Seven breeding pairs of marmoset monkeys each provided control twins
(CON) and twins that were subjected to ED for 30-120 min/day on postnatal days
(PND) 2-28. Urine samples were obtained to monitor the acute effect of ED on
cortisol and catecholamine levels. Behavior samples were obtained in the home
cage to monitor the effects of ED on infant and infant-parent behavior.
RESULTS: Early deprivation of parental care caused acute increases in cortisol,
epinephrine, and norepinephrine. At PND 28, basal cortisol was reduced in ED
compared with CON infants, and ED infants were smaller than CON infants. Early
deprivation infants tended to spend more time in the suckling position than did
CON. Early deprivation infants demonstrated more distress vocalization than CON
infants, even though the parental care they received in the home cage was
similar. Early deprivation infants tended to play less socially than did CON.
CONCLUSIONS: To our knowledge, this is the first demonstration that a repeated
early life stressor of the type developed in rats can also be applied to a
primate species.

DOI: 10.1016/s0006-3223(02)01460-9 
PMID: 12460687  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2999. Gen Comp Endocrinol. 2002 Dec;129(3):135-45.

Characterization of urinary and fecal metabolites of testosterone and their
measurement for assessing gonadal endocrine function in male nonhuman primates.

Möhle U(1), Heistermann M, Palme R, Hodges JK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Reproductive Biology, German Primate Center, Kellnerweg 4, 37077
Göttingen, Germany.

The aims of the present study were (i) to provide basic comparative data on the
time course, route, and characteristics of excreted [14C]testosterone (T)
metabolites in three nonhuman primates: the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus),
the long-tailed macaque (Macaca fascicularis) and the chimpanzee (Pan
troglodytes) and (ii) to use this information to help validate the measurement of
urinary and fecal testosterone metabolites for assessing androgen status in
Anthropoid primates. Radiolabeled 14C-T (10-30 microCi) was injected
intravenously into one adult male of each species and the excreta collected over 
the next 5 days. Peak radioactivity in urine was detected within 2h and accounted
for 67% (Mf), 80% (Cj) and 91% (Pt) of the total radioactivity recovered. The
time course of excretion of radioactivity in feces showed a higher variation
between species (4-26 h to peak values). In all three species, the majority
(>90%) of urinary metabolites were excreted as conjugates whereas the proportion 
of conjugated metabolites in feces was substantially lower and more variable.
High pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC) analysis of urinary and fecal extracts
revealed multiple peaks of radioactivity in all three individuals, but each with 
a distinctive pattern. Native T was excreted in only small amounts into the
urine, whereas it was virtually absent in the feces of all three individuals.
Three C17 group-specific enzymeimmunoassays using antisera against testosterone, 
5alpha-androstane-17alpha-ol-3-one and androsterone were evaluated for their
ability to discriminate immunoreactive androgen levels between intact males,
castrated males and females based on measurements in urine and feces. In the
marmoset, all assays (except for T in feces) clearly discriminated between test
groups; in the chimpanzee significantly higher levels of androgen
immunoreactivity in intact versus castrated males were measured in urine, but not
feces. In the macaque, only the 5alpha-androstanolone measurement in feces
discriminated between groups. Data on the results of a radiometabolism study
using 3H-DHEA (a weak adrenal androgen) in a long-tailed macaque suggested that
co-measurement of metabolites derived from T and DHEA in the assays tested might 
explain the difficulties in discriminating gonadal status in the two Old World
primate species. Collectively, the data show that T metabolism in primates is
highly complex and that no single method for noninvasive assessment of androgen
status can be used for application across species. The importance of a proper
validation of the methodology for each species is emphasised.

DOI: 10.1016/s0016-6480(02)00525-7 
PMID: 12460597  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

