

2999. Gen Comp Endocrinol. 2002 Dec;129(3):135-45.

Characterization of urinary and fecal metabolites of testosterone and their
measurement for assessing gonadal endocrine function in male nonhuman primates.

Möhle U(1), Heistermann M, Palme R, Hodges JK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Reproductive Biology, German Primate Center, Kellnerweg 4, 37077
Göttingen, Germany.

The aims of the present study were (i) to provide basic comparative data on the
time course, route, and characteristics of excreted [14C]testosterone (T)
metabolites in three nonhuman primates: the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus),
the long-tailed macaque (Macaca fascicularis) and the chimpanzee (Pan
troglodytes) and (ii) to use this information to help validate the measurement of
urinary and fecal testosterone metabolites for assessing androgen status in
Anthropoid primates. Radiolabeled 14C-T (10-30 microCi) was injected
intravenously into one adult male of each species and the excreta collected over 
the next 5 days. Peak radioactivity in urine was detected within 2h and accounted
for 67% (Mf), 80% (Cj) and 91% (Pt) of the total radioactivity recovered. The
time course of excretion of radioactivity in feces showed a higher variation
between species (4-26 h to peak values). In all three species, the majority
(>90%) of urinary metabolites were excreted as conjugates whereas the proportion 
of conjugated metabolites in feces was substantially lower and more variable.
High pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC) analysis of urinary and fecal extracts
revealed multiple peaks of radioactivity in all three individuals, but each with 
a distinctive pattern. Native T was excreted in only small amounts into the
urine, whereas it was virtually absent in the feces of all three individuals.
Three C17 group-specific enzymeimmunoassays using antisera against testosterone, 
5alpha-androstane-17alpha-ol-3-one and androsterone were evaluated for their
ability to discriminate immunoreactive androgen levels between intact males,
castrated males and females based on measurements in urine and feces. In the
marmoset, all assays (except for T in feces) clearly discriminated between test
groups; in the chimpanzee significantly higher levels of androgen
immunoreactivity in intact versus castrated males were measured in urine, but not
feces. In the macaque, only the 5alpha-androstanolone measurement in feces
discriminated between groups. Data on the results of a radiometabolism study
using 3H-DHEA (a weak adrenal androgen) in a long-tailed macaque suggested that
co-measurement of metabolites derived from T and DHEA in the assays tested might 
explain the difficulties in discriminating gonadal status in the two Old World
primate species. Collectively, the data show that T metabolism in primates is
highly complex and that no single method for noninvasive assessment of androgen
status can be used for application across species. The importance of a proper
validation of the methodology for each species is emphasised.

DOI: 10.1016/s0016-6480(02)00525-7 
PMID: 12460597  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3000. Horm Behav. 2002 Nov;42(3):356-67.

Parent-daughter relationships and social controls on fertility in female common
marmosets, Callithrix jacchus.

Ziegler TE(1), Sousa MB.

Author information: 
(1)Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, Brazil.
ziegler@primate.wisc.edu

This study examined the reproductive status of mothers and daughters to determine
if parent-eldest daughter interactions would influence the daughter's fertility
in the cooperatively breeding common marmoset, Callithrix jacchus. Twice weekly
fecal samples were collected for hormonal analyses from seven daughters and their
mothers and analyzed for cortisol, estradiol, and progesterone by EIA. Behavioral
data were collected three times weekly while the daughters were under three
conditions: natal family, after removing from the family and paring with a novel 
male, and after removing from the paired condition and placed back with the
family (renatal). Under the natal condition, five of the seven daughters
exhibited ovarian cycles while their mother was pregnant or displaying ovarian
cycling. The five cycling daughters spent significantly more time initiating
affilative behaviors with their mothers than with their fathers and showed
significant changes in their behavior over the length of the ovarian cycle.
However, aggression, submission, and sexual behaviors were very low for daughters
in the natal phase. No differences between cortisol levels were found for a
daughter and her mother. Cortisol levels showed a significant and sustained
increase upon pairing within the first 20 days. All females but one cycled while 
paired. Six of the seven females were accepted back into the family after pairing
and five of the seven females were ovulating. These results suggest that marmoset
daughters are not necessarily reproductively suppressed while living with the
family. Additionally, these data suggest that female marmosets that leave their
family to explore mating opportunities with other groups may return to their
family without reproductive or aggressive consequences.

DOI: 10.1006/hbeh.2002.1828 
PMID: 12460595  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

