

3000. Horm Behav. 2002 Nov;42(3):356-67.

Parent-daughter relationships and social controls on fertility in female common
marmosets, Callithrix jacchus.

Ziegler TE(1), Sousa MB.

Author information: 
(1)Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, Brazil.
ziegler@primate.wisc.edu

This study examined the reproductive status of mothers and daughters to determine
if parent-eldest daughter interactions would influence the daughter's fertility
in the cooperatively breeding common marmoset, Callithrix jacchus. Twice weekly
fecal samples were collected for hormonal analyses from seven daughters and their
mothers and analyzed for cortisol, estradiol, and progesterone by EIA. Behavioral
data were collected three times weekly while the daughters were under three
conditions: natal family, after removing from the family and paring with a novel 
male, and after removing from the paired condition and placed back with the
family (renatal). Under the natal condition, five of the seven daughters
exhibited ovarian cycles while their mother was pregnant or displaying ovarian
cycling. The five cycling daughters spent significantly more time initiating
affilative behaviors with their mothers than with their fathers and showed
significant changes in their behavior over the length of the ovarian cycle.
However, aggression, submission, and sexual behaviors were very low for daughters
in the natal phase. No differences between cortisol levels were found for a
daughter and her mother. Cortisol levels showed a significant and sustained
increase upon pairing within the first 20 days. All females but one cycled while 
paired. Six of the seven females were accepted back into the family after pairing
and five of the seven females were ovulating. These results suggest that marmoset
daughters are not necessarily reproductively suppressed while living with the
family. Additionally, these data suggest that female marmosets that leave their
family to explore mating opportunities with other groups may return to their
family without reproductive or aggressive consequences.

DOI: 10.1006/hbeh.2002.1828 
PMID: 12460595  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3001. Hum Exp Toxicol. 2002 Sep-Oct;21(9-10):543-67.

Feasibility of human trials to assess developmental immunotoxicity, and some
comparison with data on New World monkeys.

Neubert RT(1), Webb JR, Neubert D.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Clinical Pharmacology and Toxicology, Benjamin Franklin Medical
Center, Free University Berlin, Berlin, Germany.

Procedures to reveal 'immunotoxic' potentials of chemicals in animal experiments 
(mostly in rodents) have been recommended, but the selection of test systems is
rather arbitrary. The predictive power of extrapolations to the possible
situation in humans is unknown because human studies to confirm or to reject
clues from animal data are largely lacking. End points selected in animal studies
and those expected to be relevant in humans are not identical. Results of animal 
experiments are based on doses, generally ignoring the important species
differences in pharmacokinetics. This unfavorable situation is especially
pronounced when attempting to evaluate 'environmental chemicals'. Because much
more information is available on many medicinal drugs, exposures can be defined
and pharmacokinetic data are available or obtainable. The situation is even more 
complicated when attempting to assess possible adverse effects on the developing 
immune system: in addition to the problems mentioned, numerous different
developmental periods with varying susceptibilities must be considered, and
species differences in the immune response are superimposed with large
differences in pre-, early post-, and later postnatal development.
Simultaneously, the kinetic variables are continuously changing with time (with
additional variability among species). Different results, even between rats and
mice, are bound to occur. Extrapolation to the situation possibly relevant for
human exposure will be almost impossible, especially from rodent data. The
majority of such effects induced peri- or early postnatally may be expected to be
reversible. It must also be assessed whether qualitatively different adverse
effects are likely to be induced during 'development', which cannot be revealed
(accepting quantitative differences) by more easily performed tests on the adult 
organism. Considering the intrinsic difficulties, the most promising approach
would be to directly obtain data from human trials. This is feasible for
medicinal drugs. Alternatively, data on nonhuman primates, the species
phylogenetically closest to man, may provide useful information. The status quo
for such a strategy and the possible pitfalls are discussed in this overview.

DOI: 10.1191/0960327102ht295oa 
PMID: 12458914  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

