

3001. Hum Exp Toxicol. 2002 Sep-Oct;21(9-10):543-67.

Feasibility of human trials to assess developmental immunotoxicity, and some
comparison with data on New World monkeys.

Neubert RT(1), Webb JR, Neubert D.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Clinical Pharmacology and Toxicology, Benjamin Franklin Medical
Center, Free University Berlin, Berlin, Germany.

Procedures to reveal 'immunotoxic' potentials of chemicals in animal experiments 
(mostly in rodents) have been recommended, but the selection of test systems is
rather arbitrary. The predictive power of extrapolations to the possible
situation in humans is unknown because human studies to confirm or to reject
clues from animal data are largely lacking. End points selected in animal studies
and those expected to be relevant in humans are not identical. Results of animal 
experiments are based on doses, generally ignoring the important species
differences in pharmacokinetics. This unfavorable situation is especially
pronounced when attempting to evaluate 'environmental chemicals'. Because much
more information is available on many medicinal drugs, exposures can be defined
and pharmacokinetic data are available or obtainable. The situation is even more 
complicated when attempting to assess possible adverse effects on the developing 
immune system: in addition to the problems mentioned, numerous different
developmental periods with varying susceptibilities must be considered, and
species differences in the immune response are superimposed with large
differences in pre-, early post-, and later postnatal development.
Simultaneously, the kinetic variables are continuously changing with time (with
additional variability among species). Different results, even between rats and
mice, are bound to occur. Extrapolation to the situation possibly relevant for
human exposure will be almost impossible, especially from rodent data. The
majority of such effects induced peri- or early postnatally may be expected to be
reversible. It must also be assessed whether qualitatively different adverse
effects are likely to be induced during 'development', which cannot be revealed
(accepting quantitative differences) by more easily performed tests on the adult 
organism. Considering the intrinsic difficulties, the most promising approach
would be to directly obtain data from human trials. This is feasible for
medicinal drugs. Alternatively, data on nonhuman primates, the species
phylogenetically closest to man, may provide useful information. The status quo
for such a strategy and the possible pitfalls are discussed in this overview.

DOI: 10.1191/0960327102ht295oa 
PMID: 12458914  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3002. Neuroscience. 2002;115(4):1323-33.

Characterization of calbindin-positive cones in primates.

Chiquet C(1), Dkhissi-Benyahya O, Chounlamountri N, Szel A, Degrip WJ, Cooper HM.

Author information: 
(1)INSERM U371, Cerveau et Vision, Unité 371, 18 avenue du Doyen Lépine, 69675
Cedex, Bron, France.

The aim of this study is to characterize calbindin-positive photoreceptors and
their opsin content in the retina of nocturnal prosimians (Microcebus murinus),
New World monkeys (Callithrix jacchus), Old World monkeys (Macaca fascicularis), 
and humans. To identify the calbindin and opsin content of cones, combined
multiple labeling with different fluorescent probes, antibodies directed against 
calbindin, short, and mid-long wavelength opsins, and lectin peanut agglutinin
cytochemistry were used. With the exception of Microcebus, calbindin is present
in the cones of all primates but is absent from rods. The distribution of
calbindin is similar in human and macaque cones, with dense label in the inner
segment, cell body, axon and cone pedicle. Cones in marmoset also show dense
staining in the cell body, axon and pedicle but only light label in the inner
segment. Primate cone outer segments do not contain calbindin. In the primates
studied, three patterns of calbindin and opsin localization are observed. In
macaque and marmoset all short and mid-long wavelength cones contain calbindin.
In humans, all mid-long wavelength cones contain calbindin whereas all short
wavelength cones are devoid of calbindin as confirmed by confocal microscopy. In 
the nocturnal prosimian Microcebus none of the mid-long or short wavelength cones
contain calbindin. In addition to primates, calbindin is absent in cones of other
nocturnal species but is present in cones of diurnal species suggesting a
difference in the role of calbindin possibly related to the adaptational states
or other photoreceptor properties.

DOI: 10.1016/s0306-4522(02)00327-5 
PMID: 12453500  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

