

3002. Neuroscience. 2002;115(4):1323-33.

Characterization of calbindin-positive cones in primates.

Chiquet C(1), Dkhissi-Benyahya O, Chounlamountri N, Szel A, Degrip WJ, Cooper HM.

Author information: 
(1)INSERM U371, Cerveau et Vision, Unité 371, 18 avenue du Doyen Lépine, 69675
Cedex, Bron, France.

The aim of this study is to characterize calbindin-positive photoreceptors and
their opsin content in the retina of nocturnal prosimians (Microcebus murinus),
New World monkeys (Callithrix jacchus), Old World monkeys (Macaca fascicularis), 
and humans. To identify the calbindin and opsin content of cones, combined
multiple labeling with different fluorescent probes, antibodies directed against 
calbindin, short, and mid-long wavelength opsins, and lectin peanut agglutinin
cytochemistry were used. With the exception of Microcebus, calbindin is present
in the cones of all primates but is absent from rods. The distribution of
calbindin is similar in human and macaque cones, with dense label in the inner
segment, cell body, axon and cone pedicle. Cones in marmoset also show dense
staining in the cell body, axon and pedicle but only light label in the inner
segment. Primate cone outer segments do not contain calbindin. In the primates
studied, three patterns of calbindin and opsin localization are observed. In
macaque and marmoset all short and mid-long wavelength cones contain calbindin.
In humans, all mid-long wavelength cones contain calbindin whereas all short
wavelength cones are devoid of calbindin as confirmed by confocal microscopy. In 
the nocturnal prosimian Microcebus none of the mid-long or short wavelength cones
contain calbindin. In addition to primates, calbindin is absent in cones of other
nocturnal species but is present in cones of diurnal species suggesting a
difference in the role of calbindin possibly related to the adaptational states
or other photoreceptor properties.

DOI: 10.1016/s0306-4522(02)00327-5 
PMID: 12453500  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3003. Neuroscience. 2002;115(4):1047-58.

Alterations in striatal neuropeptide mRNA produced by repeated administration of 
L-DOPA, ropinirole or bromocriptine correlate with dyskinesia induction in
MPTP-treated common marmosets.

Tel BC(1), Zeng BY, Cannizzaro C, Pearce RK, Rose S, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Research Centre, Guy's, King's and St. Thomas'
School of Biomedical Sciences, King's College, SE1 1UL, London, UK.

Chronic administration of L-DOPA to MPTP-treated common marmosets induces marked 
dyskinesia while repeated administration of equivalent antiparkisonian doses of
ropinirole and bromocriptine produces only mild involuntary movements. The
occurrence of dyskinesia has been associated with an altered balance between the 
direct and indirect striatal output pathways. Using in situ hybridisation
histochemistry, we now compare the effects of these drug treatments on striatal
preproenkephalin-A (PPE-A) and adenosine A(2a) receptor mRNA expression as
markers of the indirect pathway and striatal preprotachykinin (PPT) mRNA and
preproenkephalin-B (PPE-B, prodynorphin) mRNA expression as markers of the direct
pathway.The equivalent marked losses of specific [3H]mazindol binding in the
striatum of all drug treatment groups confirmed the identical nature of the
nigral cell loss produced by MPTP treatment. MPTP-induced destruction of the
nigro-striatal pathway markedly increased the level of PPE-A mRNA in the caudate 
nucleus and putamen and decreased the levels of PPT and PPE-B mRNA relative to
normal animals. Repeated treatment with L-DOPA for 30 days produced marked
dyskinesia but had no effect on the MPTP-induced increase in PPE-A mRNA in the
caudate nucleus and putamen. In contrast, L-DOPA treatment normalised the
MPTP-induced decrease in the level of PPT and PPE-B mRNA. Repeated treatment with
ropinirole produced little or no dyskinesia but markedly reversed the
MPTP-induced elevation in PPE-A mRNA in the caudate nucleus and putamen. However,
it had no effect on the decrease in PPT or PPE-B mRNA. Similarly, bromocriptine
treatment which induced only mild dyskinesia attenuated the MPTP-induced
elevation in PPE-A mRNA in the caudate nucleus and putamen with no effect on
reduced striatal PPT or PPE-B mRNA. Neither MPTP treatment nor treatment with
L-DOPA, bromocriptine or ropinirole had any effect on adenosine A(2a) receptor
mRNA in the striatum. These patterns of alteration in striatal PPE-A and PPT and 
PPE-B mRNA produced by L-DOPA, bromocriptine and ropinirole show differential
involvement of markers of the direct and indirect striatal output pathways
related to improvement of locomotor activity and mirror the relative abilities of
the drugs to induce dyskinesia.

DOI: 10.1016/s0306-4522(02)00535-3 
PMID: 12453478  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

