

3003. Neuroscience. 2002;115(4):1047-58.

Alterations in striatal neuropeptide mRNA produced by repeated administration of 
L-DOPA, ropinirole or bromocriptine correlate with dyskinesia induction in
MPTP-treated common marmosets.

Tel BC(1), Zeng BY, Cannizzaro C, Pearce RK, Rose S, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Research Centre, Guy's, King's and St. Thomas'
School of Biomedical Sciences, King's College, SE1 1UL, London, UK.

Chronic administration of L-DOPA to MPTP-treated common marmosets induces marked 
dyskinesia while repeated administration of equivalent antiparkisonian doses of
ropinirole and bromocriptine produces only mild involuntary movements. The
occurrence of dyskinesia has been associated with an altered balance between the 
direct and indirect striatal output pathways. Using in situ hybridisation
histochemistry, we now compare the effects of these drug treatments on striatal
preproenkephalin-A (PPE-A) and adenosine A(2a) receptor mRNA expression as
markers of the indirect pathway and striatal preprotachykinin (PPT) mRNA and
preproenkephalin-B (PPE-B, prodynorphin) mRNA expression as markers of the direct
pathway.The equivalent marked losses of specific [3H]mazindol binding in the
striatum of all drug treatment groups confirmed the identical nature of the
nigral cell loss produced by MPTP treatment. MPTP-induced destruction of the
nigro-striatal pathway markedly increased the level of PPE-A mRNA in the caudate 
nucleus and putamen and decreased the levels of PPT and PPE-B mRNA relative to
normal animals. Repeated treatment with L-DOPA for 30 days produced marked
dyskinesia but had no effect on the MPTP-induced increase in PPE-A mRNA in the
caudate nucleus and putamen. In contrast, L-DOPA treatment normalised the
MPTP-induced decrease in the level of PPT and PPE-B mRNA. Repeated treatment with
ropinirole produced little or no dyskinesia but markedly reversed the
MPTP-induced elevation in PPE-A mRNA in the caudate nucleus and putamen. However,
it had no effect on the decrease in PPT or PPE-B mRNA. Similarly, bromocriptine
treatment which induced only mild dyskinesia attenuated the MPTP-induced
elevation in PPE-A mRNA in the caudate nucleus and putamen with no effect on
reduced striatal PPT or PPE-B mRNA. Neither MPTP treatment nor treatment with
L-DOPA, bromocriptine or ropinirole had any effect on adenosine A(2a) receptor
mRNA in the striatum. These patterns of alteration in striatal PPE-A and PPT and 
PPE-B mRNA produced by L-DOPA, bromocriptine and ropinirole show differential
involvement of markers of the direct and indirect striatal output pathways
related to improvement of locomotor activity and mirror the relative abilities of
the drugs to induce dyskinesia.

DOI: 10.1016/s0306-4522(02)00535-3 
PMID: 12453478  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3004. J Immunol. 2002 Dec 1;169(11):6554-63.

Prevention of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis in common marmosets using
an anti-IL-12p40 monoclonal antibody.

Brok HP(1), van Meurs M, Blezer E, Schantz A, Peritt D, Treacy G, Laman JD, Bauer
J, 't Hart BA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, Biomedical Primate Research Center, Rijswijk, The
Netherlands.

The experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) model in the common marmoset 
approximates recognized features of the human disease multiple sclerosis (MS)
with regard to its clinical presentation as well as neuropathological and
radiological aspects of the lesions in brain and spinal cord. IL-12 is a
proinflammatory cytokine that is produced by APC and promotes differentiation of 
Th1 effector cells. IL-12 is produced in the developing lesions of patients with 
MS as well as in EAE-affected animals. Previously it was shown that interference 
in IL-12 pathways effectively prevents EAE in rodents. In this study we report
that in vivo neutralization of IL-12p40 using a novel Ab has beneficial effects
in the myelin-induced EAE model in common marmosets. The Ab was injected i.v. at 
7-day intervals starting well after immunization (day 14) and was continued until
the end of the study (day 86). Stable levels of the Ab were measured 3 days after
each injection throughout the study period. During this period anti-Ab responses 
could not be detected. We demonstrate that anti-IL-12p40 treatment has a
protective effect on the neurological dysfunction as well as on neuropathological
changes normally observed in the brain and spinal cord of EAE-affected
individuals.

DOI: 10.4049/jimmunol.169.11.6554 
PMID: 12444167  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

