

3004. J Immunol. 2002 Dec 1;169(11):6554-63.

Prevention of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis in common marmosets using
an anti-IL-12p40 monoclonal antibody.

Brok HP(1), van Meurs M, Blezer E, Schantz A, Peritt D, Treacy G, Laman JD, Bauer
J, 't Hart BA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, Biomedical Primate Research Center, Rijswijk, The
Netherlands.

The experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) model in the common marmoset 
approximates recognized features of the human disease multiple sclerosis (MS)
with regard to its clinical presentation as well as neuropathological and
radiological aspects of the lesions in brain and spinal cord. IL-12 is a
proinflammatory cytokine that is produced by APC and promotes differentiation of 
Th1 effector cells. IL-12 is produced in the developing lesions of patients with 
MS as well as in EAE-affected animals. Previously it was shown that interference 
in IL-12 pathways effectively prevents EAE in rodents. In this study we report
that in vivo neutralization of IL-12p40 using a novel Ab has beneficial effects
in the myelin-induced EAE model in common marmosets. The Ab was injected i.v. at 
7-day intervals starting well after immunization (day 14) and was continued until
the end of the study (day 86). Stable levels of the Ab were measured 3 days after
each injection throughout the study period. During this period anti-Ab responses 
could not be detected. We demonstrate that anti-IL-12p40 treatment has a
protective effect on the neurological dysfunction as well as on neuropathological
changes normally observed in the brain and spinal cord of EAE-affected
individuals.

DOI: 10.4049/jimmunol.169.11.6554 
PMID: 12444167  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3005. J Comp Neurol. 2002 Dec 16;454(3):310-9.

Few intrinsic connections cross the hand-face border of area 3b of New World
monkeys.

Fang PC(1), Jain N, Kaas JH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tennessee 37203,
USA.

After long-standing loss of afferents from the hand, the hand representation in
area 3b of the somatosensory cortex of monkeys becomes responsive to touch on the
face. Because the reactivation of deprived hand cortex by the face inputs could
depend on axonal connections across the hand-face border, we determined the
extent of such connections in New World marmosets, owl monkeys, and squirrel
monkeys. Small injections of anatomic tracers were placed in the hand or the face
representations after these representations were identified by microelectrode
recordings. The positions of retrogradely labeled neurons were plotted in
processed brain sections cut parallel to the brain surface, and their locations
were related to anatomic isomorphs of the hand and face representations revealed 
in adjacent brain sections stained for myelin. In these sections, the hand-face
border was clearly visualized as a myelin-poor septum. The intrinsic connections 
of area 3b labeled by injections in either the hand or face representations were 
almost completely confined to their respective representation, and very few
neurons projected across the border. In addition, neurons in the somatosensory
thalamus labeled by injections in either face or hand representations were
confined to either VPM, representing the face, or the hand subnucleus of VPL.
Thus the reactivation of hand cortex by face stimulation does not depend on a
previously existing network of intrinsic cortical connections across the
hand-face border, or mismatched thalamocortical projections.

Copyright 2002 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.10433 
PMID: 12442321  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

