

3005. J Comp Neurol. 2002 Dec 16;454(3):310-9.

Few intrinsic connections cross the hand-face border of area 3b of New World
monkeys.

Fang PC(1), Jain N, Kaas JH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tennessee 37203,
USA.

After long-standing loss of afferents from the hand, the hand representation in
area 3b of the somatosensory cortex of monkeys becomes responsive to touch on the
face. Because the reactivation of deprived hand cortex by the face inputs could
depend on axonal connections across the hand-face border, we determined the
extent of such connections in New World marmosets, owl monkeys, and squirrel
monkeys. Small injections of anatomic tracers were placed in the hand or the face
representations after these representations were identified by microelectrode
recordings. The positions of retrogradely labeled neurons were plotted in
processed brain sections cut parallel to the brain surface, and their locations
were related to anatomic isomorphs of the hand and face representations revealed 
in adjacent brain sections stained for myelin. In these sections, the hand-face
border was clearly visualized as a myelin-poor septum. The intrinsic connections 
of area 3b labeled by injections in either the hand or face representations were 
almost completely confined to their respective representation, and very few
neurons projected across the border. In addition, neurons in the somatosensory
thalamus labeled by injections in either face or hand representations were
confined to either VPM, representing the face, or the hand subnucleus of VPL.
Thus the reactivation of hand cortex by face stimulation does not depend on a
previously existing network of intrinsic cortical connections across the
hand-face border, or mismatched thalamocortical projections.

Copyright 2002 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.10433 
PMID: 12442321  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3006. J Pharmacol Exp Ther. 2002 Dec;303(3):952-8.

Dopamine, but not norepinephrine or serotonin, reuptake inhibition reverses motor
deficits in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-treated primates.

Hansard MJ(1), Smith LA, Jackson MJ, Cheetham SC, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Research Centre, Guy's, King's, and St. Thomas'
School of Biomedical Sciences, King's College, London, United Kingdom.

Monoamine reuptake inhibitors that do not discriminate between the transporters
for dopamine (DA), norepinephrine (NE), or 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT, serotonin) 
can reverse locomotor deficits and motor disability in
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated common marmosets. DA 
reuptake inhibition is presumed to be primarily responsible, but the role played 
by inhibition of NE and 5-HT reuptake is unknown. We now evaluate the efficacy of
a range of monoamine reuptake inhibitors either alone or in combination in
MPTP-treated common marmosets to determine the actions required for effective
antiparkinsonian activity. Monoamine reuptake inhibitors not discriminating
between the DA, NE, and 5-HT transporters
[1-[1-(3,4-dichlororphenyl)cyclobutyl]-2-(3-diaminethylaminopropylthio)ethanone
monocitrate (BTS 74 398) and nomifensine] reversed locomotor deficits and motor
disability in MPTP-treated marmosets but bupropion was without effect. The
selective DA reuptake inhibitor
1-(2-(bis-(4-fluorophenyl)-methoxy)ethyl)-4-(3-phenylpropyl) piperazine)
dihydrochloride (GBR 12909) also reversed these motor deficits. The relative
efficacy of the compounds (BTS 74 398 > GBR 12909 > nomifensine >> bupropion)
paralleled their potency in inhibiting DA uptake in vitro and in vivo. In
contrast, the selective NE reuptake inhibitor nisoxetine and the 5-HT reuptake
inhibitor sertraline administered alone failed to improve motor function and
tended to worsen the deficits. Coadministration of nisoxetine attenuated the
improvement in motor deficits produced by GBR 12909. Coadministration of
sertraline also abolished the reversal of motor deficits produced by GBR 12909.
Coadministration of both sertraline and nisoxetine similarly abolished the
improvement of motor deficits produced by GBR 12909. Molecules possessing potent 
DA reuptake inhibitory activity may be useful in the treatment of the motor
symptoms of Parkinson's disease. In contrast, there seems to be no role for NE or
5-HT reuptake inhibitors, and they may impair antiparkinsonian activity mediated 
through dopaminergic mechanisms.

DOI: 10.1124/jpet.102.039743 
PMID: 12438514  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

