

3007. Chromosoma. 2002 Nov;111(4):267-72. Epub 2002 Sep 5.

Evolutionary history of chromosome 10 in primates.

Carbone L(1), Ventura M, Tempesta S, Rocchi M, Archidiacono N.

Author information: 
(1)Sezione di Genetica, DAPEG, Via Amendola 165/A 70126 Bari, Italy.

We have tracked the evolutionary history of chromosomes homologous to HSA10
(PHYL-10) in primates using appropriate panels of PCP, YAC, and BAC probes. This 
approach allowed us to delineate more precisely the PHYL-10 constitution in the
ancestor of catarrhine, platyrrhine, and prosimians. The results suggest that (i)
in the ancestor of prosimians PHYL-10 was organized in two separate PHYL-10p and 
PHYL-10q chromosomes; (ii) in the progenitor of New World monkeys PHYL-10p was a 
separate chromosome, while PHYL-10q was associated with a chromosome homologous
to HSA16; (iii) in the ancestor of Old World monkeys PHYL-10 was a unique
chromosome with a marker order corresponding to the orang form. We have also
analyzed the cat, chosen as an outgroup for its very conserved karyotype. In
agreement with published data our experiments show that the PHYL-10 in cat is
structured in two blocks, PHYL-10p and PHYL-10q, both as part of larger
chromosomes. The overall data indicate that, contrary to common opinion, PHYL-10p
and PHYL-10q were distinct chromosomes in the primate ancestor. Analysis of the
Saimiri sciureus (SSC) PHYL-10q marker order showed that it was isosequential
with the Callithrix jacchus PHYL-10q, as well as with the PHYL-10q platyrrhine
ancestral form. The SSC centromere, nevertheless, was located in a different
chromosomal region, therefore suggesting that a centromeric repositioning event
occurred in this species.

DOI: 10.1007/s00412-002-0205-5 
PMID: 12424526  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3008. J Neurophysiol. 2002 Nov;88(5):2684-99.

Temporal coherence sensitivity in auditory cortex.

Barbour DL(1), Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.
dbarbour@bme.jhu.edu

Natural sounds often contain energy over a broad spectral range and consequently 
overlap in frequency when they occur simultaneously; however, such sounds under
normal circumstances can be distinguished perceptually (e.g., the cocktail party 
effect). Sound components arising from different sources have distinct (i.e.,
incoherent) modulations, and incoherence appears to be one important cue used by 
the auditory system to segregate sounds into separately perceived acoustic
objects. Here we show that, in the primary auditory cortex of awake marmoset
monkeys, many neurons responsive to amplitude- or frequency-modulated tones at a 
particular carrier frequency [the characteristic frequency (CF)] also demonstrate
sensitivity to the relative modulation phase between two otherwise identically
modulated tones: one at CF and one at a different carrier frequency. Changes in
relative modulation phase reflect alterations in temporal coherence between the
two tones, and the most common neuronal response was found to be a maximum of
suppression for the coherent condition. Coherence sensitivity was generally found
in a narrow frequency range in the inhibitory portions of the frequency response 
areas (FRA), indicating that only some off-CF neuronal inputs into these cortical
neurons interact with on-CF inputs on the same time scales. Over the population
of neurons studied, carrier frequencies showing coherence sensitivity were found 
to coincide with the carrier frequencies of inhibition, implying that inhibitory 
inputs create the effect. The lack of strong coherence-induced facilitation also 
supports this interpretation. Coherence sensitivity was found to be greatest for 
modulation frequencies of 16-128 Hz, which is higher than the phase-locking
capability of most cortical neurons, implying that subcortical neurons could play
a role in the phenomenon. Collectively, these results reveal that auditory
cortical neurons receive some off-CF inputs temporally matched and some
temporally unmatched to the on-CF input(s) and respond in a fashion that could be
utilized by the auditory system to segregate natural sounds containing similar
spectral components (such as vocalizations from multiple conspecifics) based on
stimulus coherence.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00253.2002 
PMID: 12424304  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

