

3008. J Neurophysiol. 2002 Nov;88(5):2684-99.

Temporal coherence sensitivity in auditory cortex.

Barbour DL(1), Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.
dbarbour@bme.jhu.edu

Natural sounds often contain energy over a broad spectral range and consequently 
overlap in frequency when they occur simultaneously; however, such sounds under
normal circumstances can be distinguished perceptually (e.g., the cocktail party 
effect). Sound components arising from different sources have distinct (i.e.,
incoherent) modulations, and incoherence appears to be one important cue used by 
the auditory system to segregate sounds into separately perceived acoustic
objects. Here we show that, in the primary auditory cortex of awake marmoset
monkeys, many neurons responsive to amplitude- or frequency-modulated tones at a 
particular carrier frequency [the characteristic frequency (CF)] also demonstrate
sensitivity to the relative modulation phase between two otherwise identically
modulated tones: one at CF and one at a different carrier frequency. Changes in
relative modulation phase reflect alterations in temporal coherence between the
two tones, and the most common neuronal response was found to be a maximum of
suppression for the coherent condition. Coherence sensitivity was generally found
in a narrow frequency range in the inhibitory portions of the frequency response 
areas (FRA), indicating that only some off-CF neuronal inputs into these cortical
neurons interact with on-CF inputs on the same time scales. Over the population
of neurons studied, carrier frequencies showing coherence sensitivity were found 
to coincide with the carrier frequencies of inhibition, implying that inhibitory 
inputs create the effect. The lack of strong coherence-induced facilitation also 
supports this interpretation. Coherence sensitivity was found to be greatest for 
modulation frequencies of 16-128 Hz, which is higher than the phase-locking
capability of most cortical neurons, implying that subcortical neurons could play
a role in the phenomenon. Collectively, these results reveal that auditory
cortical neurons receive some off-CF inputs temporally matched and some
temporally unmatched to the on-CF input(s) and respond in a fashion that could be
utilized by the auditory system to segregate natural sounds containing similar
spectral components (such as vocalizations from multiple conspecifics) based on
stimulus coherence.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00253.2002 
PMID: 12424304  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3009. J Immunol. 2002 Nov 15;169(10):5415-23.

Transfer of central nervous system autoantigens and presentation in secondary
lymphoid organs.

de Vos AF(1), van Meurs M, Brok HP, Boven LA, Hintzen RQ, van der Valk P, Ravid
R, Rensing S, Boon L, 't Hart BA, Laman JD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, Erasmus Medical Centre, 3000 DR Rotterdam, The
Netherlands.

Dendritic cells are thought to regulate tolerance induction vs immunization by
transferring Ags and peripheral signals to draining lymph nodes (LN). However,
whether myelin Ag transfer and presentation in LN occurs during demyelinating
brain disease is unknown. In this study, we demonstrate redistribution of
autoantigens from brain lesions to cervical LN in monkey experimental autoimmune 
encephalomyelitis (EAE) and in multiple sclerosis (MS). Immunohistochemical
analysis revealed significantly more cells containing myelin Ags in cervical LN
of monkeys with EAE compared with those of healthy control monkeys. Myelin Ags
were observed in cells expressing dendritic cell/macrophage-specific markers, MHC
class II, and costimulatory molecules. Moreover, these cells were directly
juxtaposed to T cells, suggesting that cognate interactions between
myelin-containing APC and T cells are taking place in brain-draining LN. Indeed, 
myelin Ag-reactive T cells were observed in cervical LN from marmosets and rhesus
monkeys. Importantly, these findings were paralleled by our findings in human
tissue. We observed significantly more myelin Ag-containing cells in LN of
individuals with MS compared with those of control individuals. These cells
expressed APC markers, as observed in marmosets and rhesus monkeys. These
findings suggest that during MS and EAE, modulation of T cell reactivity against 
brain-derived Ags also takes place in cervical LN and not necessarily inside the 
brain. A major implication is that novel therapeutic strategies may be targeted
to peripheral events, thereby circumventing the blood-brain barrier.

DOI: 10.4049/jimmunol.169.10.5415 
PMID: 12421916  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

