

3011. J Oral Maxillofac Surg. 2002 Nov;60(11):1307-14; discussion 1314-5.

The effect of a unilateral costochondral graft on the growth of the marmoset
mandible.

Peltomäki T(1), Vähätalo K, Rönning O.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oral Development and Orthodontics, Institute of Dentistry,
University of Turku, Finland. timo.peltomaki@utu.fi

PURPOSE: The purpose of the investigation was to examine growth of the mandible
after costochondral grafting with special reference to the amount of cartilage
included in the grafts.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The material consisted of 5 growing and 3 adult marmoset
monkeys, Callithrix jacchus, in which the condylar process was removed
unilaterally and replaced with a costochondral graft (CCG) containing either a
short or long cartilage end. Growing animals were followed for 15 months until
they attained maturity; and adult animals were followed for 13 months.
Measurements made on frontal radiographs performed bimonthly, and direct
measurements made on dry mandibles and crania at the end of the experiment, were 
used to evaluate the growth of the mandible and glenoid fossa.
RESULTS: Longitudinal cephalometric evaluation revealed a gradual deviation of
the lower dental midline to the unoperated side in growing monkeys with a long
cartilage transplant. In all other animals, virtually no midline deviation
occurred. Measurements on dry mandibles showed that the length and ramus height
were longer in growing animals with long cartilage transplants compared with
those with short cartilage transplants. In adult animals, the amount of cartilage
did not make any difference with regard to the mandibular measurements.
Enlargement of the articulating head on the grafted side was recorded in all
animals. A morphologic change in the glenoid fossa of growing monkeys with a long
cartilage transplant was also noted.
CONCLUSIONS: The findings of this investigation indicate that depending on the
amount of cartilage in a unilateral CCG, a tissue-separating force is generated
in growing monkeys, capable of propelling the mandible to the unoperated side.
This gradual overgrowth occurs during the entire growth period, indicating a
strong hormonal and growth factor influence on the growth process. Jaw function
may have an effect on the articulating surface of the CCG, seen as enlarged
articulating head on the grafted side in all animals.

Copyright 2002 American Association of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgeons J Oral
Maxillofac Surg 60:1307-1314, 2002

DOI: 10.1053/joms.2002.35729 
PMID: 12420265  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3012. Brain Res. 2002 Nov 15;955(1-2):8-15.

Acute and repeated treatment with L-DOPA increase c-jun expression in the
6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned forebrain of rats and common marmosets.

Svenningsson P(1), Arts J, Gunne L, Andren PE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, Karolinska Institute, SE-171 77,
Stockholm, Sweden.

L-DOPA was acutely or repeatedly administered to rats and common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus) with unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) denervation of
the dopamine inputs to the forebrain. Using in situ hybridization it was found
that L-DOPA-treated animals exhibited a pronounced induction in the gene
expression of both c-jun and c-fos in striatum and cerebral cortex restricted to 
the dopamine-depleted hemisphere. In contrast, acute treatment with cocaine
induced c-fos mRNA, but not c-jun mRNA, in the striatum of normal animals. These 
data suggest that dopamine denervation leads to neurochemical adaptations which
enables L-DOPA to induce a sustained gene expression of c-jun. Such aberrant gene
regulation may underlie the development of L-DOPA-induced movement disorders
which are commonly found in patients with Parkinson's disease.

DOI: 10.1016/s0006-8993(02)03289-4 
PMID: 12419516  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

