

3016. Behav Brain Res. 2002 Oct 17;136(1):257-65.

Contralesional neglect in monkeys with small unilateral parietal cortical
ablations.

Marshall JW(1), Baker HF, Ridley RM.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Comparative Cognition Team, Department of Experimental Psychology,
University of Cambridge, Downing Site, UK.

Transient contralesional spatial neglect, in addition to motor impairment in the 
contralesional arm, is sometimes seen in patients following cerebral infarction
in the right hemisphere and is seen following experimental occlusion of the right
middle cerebral artery in primates. To test whether contralesional visuospatial
neglect arises from a disruption of the forward flow of information from the
striate cortex through the dorsal territory of the middle cerebral artery, we
made a small strip suction ablation in the right parietal cortex from the medial 
edge of the dorsal cortical surface to the posterior ventral edge of the superior
temporal gyrus in marmoset monkeys. These monkeys did not exhibit a motor
impairment, or misreaching, with the contralesional arm. When they were
unrestrained and free to use either arm, they were impaired at finding rewards in
their contralesional space and in choosing the nearer of two rewards hidden in
ipsilesional space (i.e. they had an ultra-ipsilesional bias in ipsilesional
space). Comparison of performance under four conditions in a task in which the
monkeys were constrained to reach into each hemispace with each arm separately
indicated that they were impaired at reaching into contralesional, but not
ipsilesional, space with either arm but they did not exhibit any impairment
confined to the contralesional arm. These impairments in contralesional space
were transient suggesting that the monkeys were able to re-align their egocentric
spatial coordinates to obviate these deficits.

DOI: 10.1016/s0166-4328(02)00138-9 
PMID: 12385812  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3017. Gene. 2002 Aug 21;296(1-2):99-109.

Structure, molecular evolution, and gene expression of primate superoxide
dismutases.

Fukuhara R(1), Tezuka T, Kageyama T.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Human Evolution Modeling Research, Primate Research Institute,
Kyoto University, Inuyama 484-8506, Japan.

Mn- and Cu,Zn-superoxide dismutase (SOD) cDNAs of eight primate species, Pan
troglodytes, Pongo pygmaeus, Hylobates lar, Macaca fuscata, Macaca fascicularis, 
Macaca mulatta, Cebus apella, and Callithrix jacchus, were cloned. The whole
protein-coding sequences were covered, comparing 198 and 153 (or 154) amino
acids, for Mn- and Cu,Zn-SODs, respectively. Residues forming metal ligands were 
completely conserved in the two primate SODs and nucleotide/amino acid
substitutions were more frequent in Cu,Zn-SODs than in Mn-SODs. Molecular
evolutionary analyses showed Mn-SOD to have evolved at a constant rate and its
phylogenetic tree well reflected primate phylogeny. Cu,Zn-SOD was shown to have
evolved differently between primate lineages. The significant high ratio of a
non-synonymous/synonymous rate was found in the lineage leading to great apes and
humans, showing that this lineage underwent positive Darwinian selection.
Southern hybridization suggested that the genes for primate Mn- and Cu,Zn-SOD
exist as single copies. Northern analysis in various Japanese monkey tissues
showed Mn- and Cu,Zn-SOD expression to be high in the liver, kidneys, and adrenal
glands.

DOI: 10.1016/s0378-1119(02)00837-5 
PMID: 12383507  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

