

3022. Cells Tissues Organs. 2002;172(1):53-69.

Central olfactory connections in the microsmatic marmoset monkey (Callithrix
jacchus).

Liebetanz D(1), Nitsche Mi, Fromm C, Reyher CK.

Author information: 
(1)Max Planck Institute of Biophysical Chemistry, Göttingen, Germany.
dliebet@gwdg.de

The mammalian primary olfactory system consists of a set of different
telencephalic structures, including paleo-, archi-, periarchi- and mesocortical
components. We present the first characterisation of the normal and connectional 
anatomy of the primary olfactory cortex of the common marmoset, a microsmatic
simian species increasingly used in primate research. The centrifugal and
centripetal bulbar projections were determined by injections of the anterograde
and retrograde tracer wheat germ agglutinin-conjugated horseradish peroxidase and
fluorescent dyes into the ipsilateral main olfactory bulb. The efferent
projections of the marmoset bulb are organised entirely ipsilaterally and are
established via a rudimentary medial olfactory tract and the dominant lateral
olfactory tract. Target areas are the anterior olfactory nucleus, the entire
prepiriform cortex, ventral tenia tecta, periamygdaloid cortex and the rostral
part of the entorhinal cortex. The bulbar axons predominantly terminate in the
outer part of layer I. The anterior olfactory nucleus receives a weak additional 
input within layer II and III, which is not found in macrosmatic rodents. Further
anterograde labelling was found in the endopiriform nucleus deep under the
prepiriform cortex and within an anterolateral strip of the olfactory tubercle.
However, control injections into the olfactory tubercle suggest that the marmoset
olfactory tubercle receives a bisynaptic olfactory input only. Retrograde
labelling after bulb injections revealed that, except for the olfactory tubercle,
all primary olfactory cortices contributed to an ipsilateral bulbopetal feedback 
projection. Like in rodents, the only bulbopetal projection organised bilaterally
in the marmoset is maintained by the anterior olfactory nucleus. With few
exceptions, the projections of the marmoset olfactory brain are organised
similarly to that of the macaque monkey or those of macrosmatic species.

Copyright 2002 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 10.1159/000064386 
PMID: 12364829  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3023. Mov Disord. 2002 Sep;17(5):887-901.

Repeated administration of piribedil induces less dyskinesia than L-dopa in
MPTP-treated common marmosets: a behavioural and biochemical investigation.

Smith LA(1), Tel BC, Jackson MJ, Hansard MJ, Braceras R, Bonhomme C,
Chezaubernard C, Del Signore S, Rose S, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Diseases Research Centre, Guy's, King's and St. Thomas'
School of Biomedical Sciences, King's College, London, United Kingdom.

Piribedil ([1-(3,4-methylenedioxybenzyl)-4-(2-pyrimidinyl)piperazine]; S 4200) is
a dopamine agonist with equal affinity for D(2)/D(3) dopamine receptors effective
in treating Parkinson's disease as monotherapy or as an adjunct to levodopa
(L-dopa). However, its ability to prime basal ganglia for the appearance of
dyskinesia is unknown. We now report on the ability of repeated administration of
piribedil to induce dyskinesia in drug naïve
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) -lesioned common marmosets
compared with L-dopa and its actions on the direct and indirect striatal outflow 
pathways. Administration of piribedil (4.0-5.0 mg/kg orally) or L-dopa (12.5
mg/kg orally plus carbidopa 12.5 mg/kg orally twice daily) produced equivalent
increases in locomotor activity and reversal of motor deficits over a 28-day
study period. Administration of L-dopa resulted in the progressive development of
marked dyskinesia over the period of study. In contrast, administration of
piribedil produced a significantly lower degree and intensity of dyskinesia.
Surprisingly, piribedil caused an increase in vigilance and alertness compared to
L-dopa, which may relate to the recently discovered alpha(2)-noradrenergic
antagonist properties of piribedil. The behavioural differences between piribedil
and L-dopa are reflected in the biochemical changes associated with the direct
striatal output pathway. Administration of L-dopa or piribedil did not reverse
the MPTP-induced up-regulation of preproenkephalin A mRNA in rostral or caudal
areas of the putamen or caudate nucleus. In contrast, administration of either
piribedil or L-dopa reversed the downregulation of preprotachykinin mRNA induced 
by MPTP in rostral and caudal striatum. L-dopa, but not Piribedil, reversed the
decrease in preproenkephalin B mRNA produced by MPTP treatment.

Copyright 2002 Movement Disorder Society

DOI: 10.1002/mds.10200 
PMID: 12360537  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

