

3023. Mov Disord. 2002 Sep;17(5):887-901.

Repeated administration of piribedil induces less dyskinesia than L-dopa in
MPTP-treated common marmosets: a behavioural and biochemical investigation.

Smith LA(1), Tel BC, Jackson MJ, Hansard MJ, Braceras R, Bonhomme C,
Chezaubernard C, Del Signore S, Rose S, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Diseases Research Centre, Guy's, King's and St. Thomas'
School of Biomedical Sciences, King's College, London, United Kingdom.

Piribedil ([1-(3,4-methylenedioxybenzyl)-4-(2-pyrimidinyl)piperazine]; S 4200) is
a dopamine agonist with equal affinity for D(2)/D(3) dopamine receptors effective
in treating Parkinson's disease as monotherapy or as an adjunct to levodopa
(L-dopa). However, its ability to prime basal ganglia for the appearance of
dyskinesia is unknown. We now report on the ability of repeated administration of
piribedil to induce dyskinesia in drug naïve
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) -lesioned common marmosets
compared with L-dopa and its actions on the direct and indirect striatal outflow 
pathways. Administration of piribedil (4.0-5.0 mg/kg orally) or L-dopa (12.5
mg/kg orally plus carbidopa 12.5 mg/kg orally twice daily) produced equivalent
increases in locomotor activity and reversal of motor deficits over a 28-day
study period. Administration of L-dopa resulted in the progressive development of
marked dyskinesia over the period of study. In contrast, administration of
piribedil produced a significantly lower degree and intensity of dyskinesia.
Surprisingly, piribedil caused an increase in vigilance and alertness compared to
L-dopa, which may relate to the recently discovered alpha(2)-noradrenergic
antagonist properties of piribedil. The behavioural differences between piribedil
and L-dopa are reflected in the biochemical changes associated with the direct
striatal output pathway. Administration of L-dopa or piribedil did not reverse
the MPTP-induced up-regulation of preproenkephalin A mRNA in rostral or caudal
areas of the putamen or caudate nucleus. In contrast, administration of either
piribedil or L-dopa reversed the downregulation of preprotachykinin mRNA induced 
by MPTP in rostral and caudal striatum. L-dopa, but not Piribedil, reversed the
decrease in preproenkephalin B mRNA produced by MPTP treatment.

Copyright 2002 Movement Disorder Society

DOI: 10.1002/mds.10200 
PMID: 12360537  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3024. Mov Disord. 2002 Sep;17(5):877-86.

The monoamine reuptake blocker brasofensine reverses akinesia without dyskinesia 
in MPTP-treated and levodopa-primed common marmosets.

Pearce RK(1), Smith LA, Jackson MJ, Banerji T, Scheel-Krüger J, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Pharmacology & Therapeutics, Guy's, King's and St. Thomas' School 
of Biomedical Sciences, London, United Kingdom.

The common marmoset develops motor deficits after MPTP treatment and exhibits
dyskinesia after chronic levodopa (L-dopa) dosing and subsequent re-challenge
with L-dopa and other dopaminergic agents. We report on the actions of the potent
monoamine reuptake blocker brasofensine on motor disability, locomotor activity, 
and dyskinesia in the 1-methyl-4-1, 2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) -treated
marmoset model of Parkinson's disease. Oral administration of brasofensine (0.25,
0.5, 1.0, or 2.5 mg/kg) to MPTP-treated marmosets produced a long-lasting,
dose-dependent increase in locomotor activity and reduction in disability scores.
In addition, coadministration of the lowest dose of brasofensine (0.25 mg/kg
orally) with a threshold oral dose of L-dopa (2.5 mg/kg) caused a marked increase
in locomotor activity, greater than that produced by either drug alone. In other 
MPTP-treated marmosets previously primed to exhibit dyskinesia by repeated L-dopa
dosing, brasofensine effectively reversed akinesia with a naturalistic and
prolonged motor response without the appearance of dyskinesia or stereotypy. This
finding contrasts with the severe dyskinesia, stereotypy, and hyperkinesis
produced by equivalent doses of L-dopa. The ability of brasofensine to produce a 
prolonged and naturalistic antiparkinsonian response without eliciting dyskinesia
after previous L-dopa priming may relate to actions on D(1) receptor-linked
pathways. These findings suggest that monoamine reuptake blockade may be of value
in the treatment of Parkinson's disease, both early in the disease course and
when L-dopa-induced dyskinesias complicate treatment.

Copyright 2002 Movement Disorder Society

DOI: 10.1002/mds.10238 
PMID: 12360536  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

