

3025. Biol Reprod. 2002 Oct;67(4):1180-8.

Angiogenesis in the corpus luteum of early pregnancy in the marmoset and the
effects of vascular endothelial growth factor immunoneutralization on
establishment of pregnancy.

Rowe AJ(1), Morris KD, Bicknell R, Fraser HM.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council Human Reproductive Sciences Unit, Centre for
Reproductive Biology, Edinburgh EH3 9ET, United Kingdom.

This study investigated vascular and molecular changes in the corpus luteum (CL) 
of early pregnancy in the marmoset. Ovaries were studied on Days 21 (n = 6) and
28 (n = 6) of pregnancy and compared with corpora lutea from Day 21 (late luteal)
of the nonconception cycle (n = 8). Endothelial cell proliferation was measured
by immunocytochemical detection of incorporated bromodeoxyuridine. Endothelial
cell and pericyte area were assessed by quantitative immunocytochemistry for CD31
and alpha-smooth muscle actin, respectively. Vascular endothelial growth factor
(VEGF) and its receptors, kinase insert domain-containing region (KDR) and
fms-like tyrosine kinase (Flt) mRNA, were localized and quantified in in situ
hybridization. In addition, the effects of immunoneutralization of VEGF on
establishment and maintenance of pregnancy were investigated by administering a
VEGF neutralizing antibody on Days 0-10 of the luteal phase during potentially
fertile cycles (n = 10) and compared with fertile controls (n = 6). No
differences in the cellular or morphological parameters were found between
pregnant and structurally intact nonpregnant corpora lutea. No major differences 
were found in expression of VEGF, Flt, or KDR in these CL. VEGF
immunoneutralization markedly suppressed plasma progesterone secretion during
treatment, but pregnancy rate was not significantly reduced. Thus, a role for
VEGF in early pregnancy in the marmoset remains to be established. These results 
show that, by the late luteal phase in the marmoset, the corpus luteum has
established a mature vascular system and the molecular capacity to synthesize
VEGF and its receptors. A pregnancy-induced spurt of angiogenesis or gene
expression does not appear to take place; rather, maintenance of the existing
vasculature is all that is required for the establishment of pregnancy.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod67.4.1180 
PMID: 12297534  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3026. Mol Ecol. 2002 Oct;11(10):2157-69.

Trans-specific evolution of opsin alleles and the maintenance of trichromatic
colour vision in Callitrichine primates.

Surridge AK(1), Mundy NI.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Biological Anthropology, University of Oxford, 58 Banbury Road,
Oxford OX2 6QS, UK.

Many New World (NW) primates possess a remarkable polymorphism in an X-linked
locus, which encodes for the visual pigments (opsins) used for colour vision.
Females that are heterozygous for opsin alleles of different spectral sensitivity
at this locus have trichromatic colour vision, whereas homozygous females and
males are dichromatic, with poor colour discrimination in the red-green range.
Here we describe an extensive survey of allelic variation in both exons and
introns at this locus within and among species of the Callitrichines (marmosets
and tamarins). All five genera of Callitrichines have the X-linked polymorphism, 
and only the three functional allelic classes described previously (with maximum 
wavelength sensitivities at about 543 nm, 556 nm and 563 nm) were found among the
16 species and 233 or more X-chromosomes sampled. In spite of the homogenizing
effects of gene conversion, phylogenetic analyses provide direct evidence for
trans-specific evolution of alleles over time periods of at least 5-6 million
years, and up to 14 million years (estimated from independent phylogenies). These
conclusions are supported by the distribution of insertions and deletions in
introns. The maintenance of polymorphism over these time periods requires an
adaptive explanation, which must involve a heterozygote advantage for
trichromats. The lack of detection of alleles that are recombinant for spectral
sensitivity suggests that such alleles are suboptimal. The two main hypotheses
for the selective advantage of trichromacy in primates are frugivory for ripe
fruits and folivory for young leaves. The latter can be discounted in
Callitrichines, as they are not folivorous.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-294x.2002.01597.x 
PMID: 12296957  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

