

3031. Anat Rec. 2002 Oct 1;268(2):105-14.

Analysis of the distribution of binding sites for the plant lectin Bandeiraea
simplicifolia I-isolectin B4 on primary sensory neurones in seven mammalian
species.

Gerke MB(1), Plenderleith MB.

Author information: 
(1)Neuroscience Laboratory, School of Life Sciences, Queensland University of
Technology, Brisbane, Queensland 4001, Australia.

The purpose of the present study was to investigate the binding patterns of the
plant lectin Bandeiraea simplicifolia I-isolectin B(4) (BSI-B(4)) to sensory
neurones in seven mammalian species. The dorsal root ganglia and spinal cords of 
three rats, mice, guinea pigs, rabbits, flying foxes, cats, and marmoset monkeys 
were screened for BSI-B(4) using lectin histochemistry. BSI-B(4) binding was
associated with the soma of predominantly small-diameter primary sensory neurones
in the dorsal root ganglia and their axon terminals within laminae I and II of
the superficial dorsal horn in all seven species. The similarities of lectin
binding patterns in each of these species suggest that the glycoconjugate to
which BSI-B(4) binds has a ubiquitous distribution in mammals, and supports the
proposal that this lectin may preferentially bind to a subpopulation of sensory
neurones with a similar functional role in each of these species.

Copyright 2002 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ar.10144 
PMID: 12221716  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3032. J Gene Med. 2002 Sep-Oct;4(5):560-6.

Transfer of maternally administered fusogenic liposome-DNA complexes into monkey 
fetuses in a pregnancy model.

Hirano M(1), Nakamura S, Mitsunaga F, Okada M, Shimuzu K, Imamura T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cellular and Molecular Biology, Primate Research Institute,
Kyoto University, Inuyama, Aichi 484-8506, Japan.

BACKGROUND: Materno-fetal transfer of intravenously administered liposome-plasmid
DNA complexes has been demonstrated only in mice. Studies on its materno-fetal
transfer in the pregnant monkey model is needed because of critical differences
in placental structure between primates including humans and rodents.
METHODS: The reporter plasmid pEGFP-C1 was formulated in cationic lipid
containing polybrene and vesicular stomatitis virus G protein. The fusogenic
liposome-plasmid DNA complexes were intradermally injected into pregnant common
marmosets (N=2), a New World monkey, near term. DNA extracted from fetal tissues 
was subjected to PCR for detection of the egfp gene. Confocal microscopy and
immunostaining were performed to determine the sites of transgene expression in
the fetal organs.
RESULTS: The egfp gene was detected in fetal blood and major organs (heart,
liver, lung). The encoded protein was mainly produced in the endothelial cells of
blood vessels in the fetal lungs.
CONCLUSIONS: This is the first report on materno-fetal transfer of intradermally 
administered fusogenic liposome-plasmid DNA complexes and fetal expression of a
transgene in primates.

Copyright 2002 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/jgm.289 
PMID: 12221649  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

