

3032. J Gene Med. 2002 Sep-Oct;4(5):560-6.

Transfer of maternally administered fusogenic liposome-DNA complexes into monkey 
fetuses in a pregnancy model.

Hirano M(1), Nakamura S, Mitsunaga F, Okada M, Shimuzu K, Imamura T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cellular and Molecular Biology, Primate Research Institute,
Kyoto University, Inuyama, Aichi 484-8506, Japan.

BACKGROUND: Materno-fetal transfer of intravenously administered liposome-plasmid
DNA complexes has been demonstrated only in mice. Studies on its materno-fetal
transfer in the pregnant monkey model is needed because of critical differences
in placental structure between primates including humans and rodents.
METHODS: The reporter plasmid pEGFP-C1 was formulated in cationic lipid
containing polybrene and vesicular stomatitis virus G protein. The fusogenic
liposome-plasmid DNA complexes were intradermally injected into pregnant common
marmosets (N=2), a New World monkey, near term. DNA extracted from fetal tissues 
was subjected to PCR for detection of the egfp gene. Confocal microscopy and
immunostaining were performed to determine the sites of transgene expression in
the fetal organs.
RESULTS: The egfp gene was detected in fetal blood and major organs (heart,
liver, lung). The encoded protein was mainly produced in the endothelial cells of
blood vessels in the fetal lungs.
CONCLUSIONS: This is the first report on materno-fetal transfer of intradermally 
administered fusogenic liposome-plasmid DNA complexes and fetal expression of a
transgene in primates.

Copyright 2002 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/jgm.289 
PMID: 12221649  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3033. Philos Trans R Soc Lond B Biol Sci. 2002 Aug 29;357(1424):975-85.

The uses of colour vision: behavioural and physiological distinctiveness of
colour stimuli.

Derrington AM(1), Parker A, Barraclough NE, Easton A, Goodson GR, Parker KS,
Tinsley CJ, Webb BS.

Author information: 
(1)School of Psychology, University Park, Nottingham NG7 2RD, UK.
andrew.derrington@nottingham.ac.uk

Colour and greyscale (black and white) pictures look different to us, but it is
not clear whether the difference in appearance is a consequence of the way our
visual system uses colour signals or a by-product of our experience. In
principle, colour images are qualitatively different from greyscale images
because they make it possible to use different processing strategies. Colour
signals provide important cues for segmenting the image into areas that represent
different objects and for linking together areas that represent the same object. 
If this property of colour signals is exploited in visual processing we would
expect colour stimuli to look different, as a class, from greyscale stimuli. We
would also expect that adding colour signals to greyscale signals should change
the way that those signals are processed. We have investigated these questions in
behavioural and in physiological experiments. We find that male marmosets (all of
which are dichromats) rapidly learn to distinguish between colour and greyscale
copies of the same images. The discrimination transfers to new image pairs, to
new colours and to image pairs in which the colour and greyscale images are
spatially different. We find that, in a proportion of neurons recorded in the
marmoset visual cortex, colour-shifts in opposite directions produce similar
enhancements of the response to a luminance stimulus. We conclude that colour is,
both behaviourally and physiologically, a distinctive property of images.

DOI: 10.1098/rstb.2002.1116 
PMCID: PMC1693019
PMID: 12217169  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

