

3037. Neuroscience. 2002;114(1):99-109.

Behavioural and immunohistochemical changes following supranigral administration 
of sonic hedgehog in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-treated common 
marmosets.

Dass B(1), Iravani MM, Jackson MJ, Engber TM, Galdes A, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Diseases Research Centre, GKT School of Biomedical Sciences,
Kings College London, London SE1 1UL, UK.

Sonic hedgehog (SHH) has trophic actions on dopaminergic cell cultures and
protects them from MPP(+) toxicity but its in vivo actions have not been
explored. We now investigate the effects of unilateral supranigral administration
of SHH on nigro-striatal function in
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-treated common marmosets. SHH (0.1
or 1.0 microg) or vehicle was stereotaxically injected into the region of the
right substantia nigra twice with an interval of 5 weeks between administrations.
The first or second administration of low dose SHH (0.1 microg) did not
significantly improve motor disability or locomotor activity compared to
time-matched vehicle-treated animals. There was, however, an approximately 30%
improvement in both motor disability and locomotor activity following the first
administration of high dose SHH (1.0 microg). No further improvements occurred
following the second high dose SHH treatment. Acute oral administration of
L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA) produced a smaller increase in locomotor
activity and greater reversal of motor disability in animals treated with SHH
than occurred in vehicle-treated common marmosets. In the substantia nigra pars
compacta, ipsilateral to SHH administration, the number of tyrosine
hydroxylase-positive neurones was increased by 21% (P > 0.05) and 57% (P < 0.05) 
in low and high dose SHH groups respectively compared to the untreated
contralateral hemisphere. There was no difference in the number of glial
fibrillary acidic protein-positive cells. SHH may improve nigro-striatal function
by restoring tyrosine hydroxylase positivity. This is reflected by an improvement
in basal disability and a reduction in the lesion-induced response to L-DOPA.

Copyright 2002 IBRO

DOI: 10.1016/s0306-4522(02)00214-2 
PMID: 12207958  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3038. J Biochem. 2002 Sep;132(3):395-400.

Effects of pravastatin sodium on mevalonate metabolism in common marmosets.

Miyazaki A(1), Koieyama T, Shimada Y, Kikuchi T, Nezu H, Ito K, Kasanuki N, Koga 
T.

Author information: 
(1)Pharmacology and Molecular Biology Research Laboratories, Sankyo Co., Ltd.,
Hiromachi Shinagawa-ku, Tokyo 140-8710, Japan.

In experimental animals and humans, the concentration of serum mevalonate (MVA), 
a direct product of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase, is
considered to reflect the activity of whole-body sterol synthesis. The
relationship between the concentration of serum MVA and the activity of sterol
synthesis in tissues, however, has not been fully clarified. In the present
study, we examined MVA metabolism by using pravastatin, a liver-selective
inhibitor of HMG-CoA reductase, and common marmosets, a good model animal for
studying lipid metabolism. In the time course study, the maximal reduction in the
concentration of serum MVA was observed 2 h after a single oral administration of
30 mg/kg pravastatin to common marmosets. We, therefore, examined the
relationship between the concentrations of serum and hepatic MVA, and sterol
synthesis in some tissues at this time point. Sterol synthesis was determined ex 
vivo in tissue slices by measuring the incorporation of [14C]acetate into
digitonin-precipitable [14C]sterols. Pravastatin at 0.03-30 mg/kg reduced
dose-dependently the activity of hepatic sterol synthesis, whereas no significant
reduction of sterol synthesis was observed in other tissues such as intestine,
kidney, testis and spleen, even with the highest dose (30 mg/kg). The
liver-specific inhibition of sterol synthesis caused parallel reductions in the
concentrations of both serum and liver MVA. In addition, there were good
correlations between the concentration of either serum or hepatic MVA and the
activity of hepatic sterol synthesis. These data indicate that the major origin
of serum MVA is the liver, and that the concentration of serum MVA reflects the
concentration of hepatic MVA and the activity of hepatic sterol synthesis 2 h
after a single oral administration of pravastatin in common marmosets.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.jbchem.a003235 
PMID: 12204108  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

