

3045. J Neurophysiol. 2002 Aug;88(2):579-94.

Sense of taste in a new world monkey, the common marmoset: recordings from the
chorda tympani and glossopharyngeal nerves.

Danilova V(1), Danilov Y, Roberts T, Tinti JM, Nofre C, Hellekant G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Animal Health and Biomedical Sciences, University of Wisconsin, 
Madison 53706, USA.

Whole nerve, as well as single fiber, responses in the chorda tympani proper (CT)
and glossopharyngeal (NG) nerves of common marmosets were recorded during taste
stimulation with three salts, four acids, six bitter compounds and more than 30
sweeteners. We recorded responses of 49 CT and 41 NG taste fibers. The
hierarchical cluster analysis distinguished three major clusters in both CT and
NG: S, Q, and H. The S(CT) fibers, 38% of all CT fibers, responded only to
sweeteners. The S(CT) fibers did not respond during stimulation with salts,
acids, and bitter compounds but exhibited OFF responses after citric and ascorbic
acids, quinine hydrochloride (QHCl), and salts (in 80% of S(CT) fibers). S(NG)
fibers, 50% of all NG fibers, also responded to sweeteners but not to stimuli of 
other taste qualities (except for citric acid, which stimulated 70% of the S(NG) 
fibers). Some sweeteners, including natural (the sweet proteins brazzein,
monellin) and artificial [cyclamate, neohesperidin dihydrochalcone (NHDHC),
N-3,5-dichlorophenyl-N'-(S)-alpha-methylbenzylguanidineacetate (DMGA),
N-4-cyanophenylcarbamoyl-(R,S)-3-amino-3-(3,4-methylenedioxyphenyl) propionic
acid (CAMPA)] did not elicit responses in the S fibers. In general, the response 
profiles of the S(CT) and S(NG) clusters were very similar, the correlation
coefficient between the responses to sweeteners in these clusters was 0.94. Both 
the Q(CT) and the Q(NG) fibers (40 and 46% of all fibers) were predominantly
responsive to bitter compounds, although their responses to the same set of
bitter compounds were quite different. Sweeteners with sweet/bitter taste for
humans also stimulated the Q clusters. The H clusters (22 and 3% of all fibers)
were predominantly responsive to acids and did not respond to stimuli of other
taste qualities. However, bitter stimuli, mainly QHCl, inhibited activity in 70% 
of H(CT) fibers. Among a total of 90 fibers from both nerves there was only 1
NaCl-best fiber in CT. We found, however, that 35% of the CT fibers reacted to
salts with inhibition of activity during stimulation, followed by an OFF
response. This OFF response was diminished or eliminated by amiloride. These
characteristics indicate that amiloride-sensitive sodium channels are involved in
salt transduction in marmosets. In the two NG fibers responding to NaCl, we
recorded neither suppression by amiloride nor OFF responses. Comparison of
marmoset data with those of other nonhuman primates studied, rhesus and
chimpanzee, demonstrates phylogenetic trends in the organization of taste system.
This can help to uncover pathways of primate evolution.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.2002.88.2.579 
PMID: 12163511  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3046. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2002 Aug;43(8):2519-28.

Diurnal rhythms in intraocular pressure, axial length, and choroidal thickness in
a primate model of eye growth, the common marmoset.

Nickla DL(1), Wildsoet CF, Troilo D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Science and Disease, New England College of
Optometry, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA. nicklad@ne-optometry.edu

PURPOSE: In chickens, there are circadian rhythms in axial length, choroidal
thickness, and intraocular pressure (IOP), the phases of which differ, depending 
on visual manipulations that alter ocular growth rate. In this study, these same 
rhythms were sought in the common marmoset, a primate model of eye growth, to
establish whether these may play a role in ocular growth regulation across
species.
METHODS: IOP was measured by applanation tonometry in 14 untreated marmosets
ranging in age from 24 to 259 days. High-frequency A-scan ultrasonography was
used to measure ocular dimensions (axial length and choroidal thickness) in 12
marmosets ranging in age from 24 to 572 days. Four monkeys were measured when
they were juveniles (<110 days of age) and again later, when they were
adolescents. Measurements were typically made at 12-hour intervals, although
three animals were measured at 6-hour intervals. Nine monkeys had both IOP and
axial dimensions measured in the same experiment.
RESULTS: There was a diurnal rhythm in IOP in the marmosets: IOP was higher
during the dark period and lower during the light period (mean change, 3.6 mm Hg;
P < 0.005). There were also rhythms in axial length and choroidal thickness. The 
rhythm in axial length was dependent on age, with faster-growing eyes of
juveniles increasing in length during the day and decreasing at night (+25 microm
vs. -22 microm; P < 0.001) and slower-growing eyes of adolescents showing the
opposite pattern (-27 microm vs. +46 microm; P < 0.0001). The choroid thickened
during the night and thinned during the day, at all ages measured (+19 microm vs.
-16 microm; P < 0.0001).
CONCLUSIONS: Diurnal rhythms in IOP, axial length, and choroidal thickness exist 
in primates. Age-related differences in the phase relationships of these rhythms 
may be associated with differences in the rates of ocular growth.


PMID: 12147579  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

