

3046. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2002 Aug;43(8):2519-28.

Diurnal rhythms in intraocular pressure, axial length, and choroidal thickness in
a primate model of eye growth, the common marmoset.

Nickla DL(1), Wildsoet CF, Troilo D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Science and Disease, New England College of
Optometry, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA. nicklad@ne-optometry.edu

PURPOSE: In chickens, there are circadian rhythms in axial length, choroidal
thickness, and intraocular pressure (IOP), the phases of which differ, depending 
on visual manipulations that alter ocular growth rate. In this study, these same 
rhythms were sought in the common marmoset, a primate model of eye growth, to
establish whether these may play a role in ocular growth regulation across
species.
METHODS: IOP was measured by applanation tonometry in 14 untreated marmosets
ranging in age from 24 to 259 days. High-frequency A-scan ultrasonography was
used to measure ocular dimensions (axial length and choroidal thickness) in 12
marmosets ranging in age from 24 to 572 days. Four monkeys were measured when
they were juveniles (<110 days of age) and again later, when they were
adolescents. Measurements were typically made at 12-hour intervals, although
three animals were measured at 6-hour intervals. Nine monkeys had both IOP and
axial dimensions measured in the same experiment.
RESULTS: There was a diurnal rhythm in IOP in the marmosets: IOP was higher
during the dark period and lower during the light period (mean change, 3.6 mm Hg;
P < 0.005). There were also rhythms in axial length and choroidal thickness. The 
rhythm in axial length was dependent on age, with faster-growing eyes of
juveniles increasing in length during the day and decreasing at night (+25 microm
vs. -22 microm; P < 0.001) and slower-growing eyes of adolescents showing the
opposite pattern (-27 microm vs. +46 microm; P < 0.0001). The choroid thickened
during the night and thinned during the day, at all ages measured (+19 microm vs.
-16 microm; P < 0.0001).
CONCLUSIONS: Diurnal rhythms in IOP, axial length, and choroidal thickness exist 
in primates. Age-related differences in the phase relationships of these rhythms 
may be associated with differences in the rates of ocular growth.


PMID: 12147579  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3047. Primates. 2002 Jul;43(3):201-16.

Behavioral and cardiophysiological responses of common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus) to social and environmental changes.

Gerber P(1), Schnell CR, Anzenberger G.

Author information: 
(1)Anthropological Institute and Museum, University of Zürich, Winterthurertrasse
190, CH-8057 Zürich, Switzerland. basa@aim.unizh.ch

Under captive conditions common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) show socially
monogamous propensities. Male and female form a social bond as characterized by
signs of behavioral arousal during separation of the pairmates, high levels of
affiliative interactions between pairmates and agonistic responses towards
strange conspecifics. In the present study behavioral and cardiophysiological
responses of mated individuals of common marmosets were recorded while the
animals were in an unfamiliar environment (1) alone, (2) with the pairmate, or
(3) with an opposite-sexed stranger. Pairmates of 6 established pairs were tested
in 3 replicates yielding a total of 36 trials per experiment. A trial was divided
into three 10-min segments (baseline; unfamiliar environment; reunion).
Behavioral responses were videotaped with a remote controlled camera system
installed within the cage. Systolic (SBP) and diastolic blood pressure (DBP), and
heart rate (HR) as well as locomotor activity (ACT) were recorded telemetrically 
through peritoneally implanted transmitters. The individuals' responses measured 
while in an unfamiliar environment was only reduced by the pairmate, but not by
an opposite-sexed stranger. No affiliative behaviors occurred between strange
conspecifics, whereas aggressive and sexual behaviors were observed. During
reunion with the pairmate individuals recovered physiologically. The present
study shows that an individualized pair bond exists between pairmates of common
marmosets. Further, it becomes evident that establishing a social bond with the
pairmate is important for maintaining physiological homeostasis.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02629648 
PMID: 12145401  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

