

3047. Primates. 2002 Jul;43(3):201-16.

Behavioral and cardiophysiological responses of common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus) to social and environmental changes.

Gerber P(1), Schnell CR, Anzenberger G.

Author information: 
(1)Anthropological Institute and Museum, University of Zürich, Winterthurertrasse
190, CH-8057 Zürich, Switzerland. basa@aim.unizh.ch

Under captive conditions common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) show socially
monogamous propensities. Male and female form a social bond as characterized by
signs of behavioral arousal during separation of the pairmates, high levels of
affiliative interactions between pairmates and agonistic responses towards
strange conspecifics. In the present study behavioral and cardiophysiological
responses of mated individuals of common marmosets were recorded while the
animals were in an unfamiliar environment (1) alone, (2) with the pairmate, or
(3) with an opposite-sexed stranger. Pairmates of 6 established pairs were tested
in 3 replicates yielding a total of 36 trials per experiment. A trial was divided
into three 10-min segments (baseline; unfamiliar environment; reunion).
Behavioral responses were videotaped with a remote controlled camera system
installed within the cage. Systolic (SBP) and diastolic blood pressure (DBP), and
heart rate (HR) as well as locomotor activity (ACT) were recorded telemetrically 
through peritoneally implanted transmitters. The individuals' responses measured 
while in an unfamiliar environment was only reduced by the pairmate, but not by
an opposite-sexed stranger. No affiliative behaviors occurred between strange
conspecifics, whereas aggressive and sexual behaviors were observed. During
reunion with the pairmate individuals recovered physiologically. The present
study shows that an individualized pair bond exists between pairmates of common
marmosets. Further, it becomes evident that establishing a social bond with the
pairmate is important for maintaining physiological homeostasis.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02629648 
PMID: 12145401  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3048. Primates. 2002 Jul;43(3):179-90.

Islet hyperplasia in callitrichids.

Juan-Sallés C(1), Marco A, Ramos-Vara JA, Resendes A, Vergés J, Valls X,
Montesinos A.

Author information: 
(1)Clínica Exótics and Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
cjuansalles@yahoo.com

Five callitrichids (three common marmosets -Callithrix jacchus -, a black
tufted-eared marmoset -C. penicillata-, and a saddle-back tamarin -Saguinus
fuscicollis) were diagnosed with islet hyperplasia by histopathology and
immunohistochemistry. All were privately-owned, unrelated callitrichids ranging
from 2- to 4-year-old. Relevant findings were anorexia (3/5), vomiting (2/5),
ptyalism (1/5), polyuria/polydipsia (1/5), respiratory distress (1/5),
hyperglycemia (2/3) and glycosuria (1/1); hyperglycemia and glycosuria were
associated with pregnancy in a common marmoset and resolved after reducing simple
carbohydrates in diet. All five animals died, three of them after few premonitory
signs; in two cases, other concurrent diseases unrelated to islet hyperplasia
were considered the cause of death. Additional animals from two facilities had
high weight (4), physical obesity (3), polyuria/polydipsia/polyphagia/uriposia
(1), hyperglycemia (1), and/or glycosuria (2). Pathologic findings in the
deceased callitrichids were: islet hyperplasia (5/5); hemosiderosis (5/5);
lipomatosis (4/5) of several tissues (atria, 3/5; pancreas, gall bladder,
intestine, esophagus, and thyroid, 2/5; liver, 1/5); pancreatic necrosis or
steatonecrosis, and/or acute pancreatitis (3/5); and vacuolation of hepatocytes
and renal tubular cells most likely consistent with hepatorenal lipidosis (2/5). 
The islets of Langerhans were more numerous and larger than in a control, and
morphologically normal in all cases, except in a common marmoset that had a few
cells with a foamy cytoplasm and shrunken hyperchromatic or picknotic nucleus.
Insulin (5/5), glucagon (3/5), and somatostatin (3/5) immunohistochemistry
revealed that most cells stained positively for insulin diffusely in their
cytoplasm (5/5) (staining restricted to the vascular pole of b-cells in the
control). These findings suggest that obesity, insulin resistance and/or type II 
diabetes may be implicated and thus a prospective study on these diseases in
callitrichids is necessary to determine their etiopathogenesis.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02629646 
PMID: 12145399  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

