

3048. Primates. 2002 Jul;43(3):179-90.

Islet hyperplasia in callitrichids.

Juan-Sallés C(1), Marco A, Ramos-Vara JA, Resendes A, Vergés J, Valls X,
Montesinos A.

Author information: 
(1)Clínica Exótics and Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
cjuansalles@yahoo.com

Five callitrichids (three common marmosets -Callithrix jacchus -, a black
tufted-eared marmoset -C. penicillata-, and a saddle-back tamarin -Saguinus
fuscicollis) were diagnosed with islet hyperplasia by histopathology and
immunohistochemistry. All were privately-owned, unrelated callitrichids ranging
from 2- to 4-year-old. Relevant findings were anorexia (3/5), vomiting (2/5),
ptyalism (1/5), polyuria/polydipsia (1/5), respiratory distress (1/5),
hyperglycemia (2/3) and glycosuria (1/1); hyperglycemia and glycosuria were
associated with pregnancy in a common marmoset and resolved after reducing simple
carbohydrates in diet. All five animals died, three of them after few premonitory
signs; in two cases, other concurrent diseases unrelated to islet hyperplasia
were considered the cause of death. Additional animals from two facilities had
high weight (4), physical obesity (3), polyuria/polydipsia/polyphagia/uriposia
(1), hyperglycemia (1), and/or glycosuria (2). Pathologic findings in the
deceased callitrichids were: islet hyperplasia (5/5); hemosiderosis (5/5);
lipomatosis (4/5) of several tissues (atria, 3/5; pancreas, gall bladder,
intestine, esophagus, and thyroid, 2/5; liver, 1/5); pancreatic necrosis or
steatonecrosis, and/or acute pancreatitis (3/5); and vacuolation of hepatocytes
and renal tubular cells most likely consistent with hepatorenal lipidosis (2/5). 
The islets of Langerhans were more numerous and larger than in a control, and
morphologically normal in all cases, except in a common marmoset that had a few
cells with a foamy cytoplasm and shrunken hyperchromatic or picknotic nucleus.
Insulin (5/5), glucagon (3/5), and somatostatin (3/5) immunohistochemistry
revealed that most cells stained positively for insulin diffusely in their
cytoplasm (5/5) (staining restricted to the vascular pole of b-cells in the
control). These findings suggest that obesity, insulin resistance and/or type II 
diabetes may be implicated and thus a prospective study on these diseases in
callitrichids is necessary to determine their etiopathogenesis.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02629646 
PMID: 12145399  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3049. Chem Senses. 2002 Jul;27(6):529-37.

Identification of V1R-like putative pheromone receptor sequences in non-human
primates. Characterization of V1R pseudogenes in marmoset, a primate species that
possesses an intact vomeronasal organ.

Giorgi D(1), Rouquier S.

Author information: 
(1)IGH, CNRS UPR 1142, Montpellier, France.

The vomeronasal organ (VNO) is responsible in terrestrial vertebrates for the
sensory perception of some pheromones, chemicals that elicit characteristic
behaviors among individuals of the same species. Two multigene families (V1R,
V2R) that encode proteins with seven putative transmembrane domains that are
expressed selectively in different neuron subsets of the VNO have been described 
in rodents. Pheromone-induced behaviors and a functional VNO have been described 
in a number of mammals, but this sensory organ seems absent in adult catarrhines 
and apes, including humans. Until now, only pseudogenes have been isolated in
humans, except one putative V1R (hV1RL1) sequence expressed in the main olfactory
epithelium. We sought to isolate V1R-like genes in a New World monkey species,
the marmoset Callithrix jacchus, that possesses an intact VNO and for which
pheromone-induced behavior has been well documented. Using library screening
approaches, we have identified five different sequences that exhibit
characteristic features of V1R sequences, but that are non-functional
pseudogenes. In an attempt to sort out functional V1R genes, we next cloned by
polymerase chain reaction (PCR) the primate orthologues of hV1RL1. This approach 
was successful for gorilla, chimpanzee and orangutan, but not for the other
species, including marmoset, probably because these species are too divergent
from humans. Chimpanzee and orangutan V1RL1 genes are pseudogenes, whereas the
gorilla counterpart is potentially functional. These observations raise the
possibility that the V1R family has evolved in such a manner in mammals that
every species that relies on a VNO-mediated sensory function possesses its own
set of functional vomeronasal genes.

DOI: 10.1093/chemse/27.6.529 
PMID: 12142329  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

