

3049. Chem Senses. 2002 Jul;27(6):529-37.

Identification of V1R-like putative pheromone receptor sequences in non-human
primates. Characterization of V1R pseudogenes in marmoset, a primate species that
possesses an intact vomeronasal organ.

Giorgi D(1), Rouquier S.

Author information: 
(1)IGH, CNRS UPR 1142, Montpellier, France.

The vomeronasal organ (VNO) is responsible in terrestrial vertebrates for the
sensory perception of some pheromones, chemicals that elicit characteristic
behaviors among individuals of the same species. Two multigene families (V1R,
V2R) that encode proteins with seven putative transmembrane domains that are
expressed selectively in different neuron subsets of the VNO have been described 
in rodents. Pheromone-induced behaviors and a functional VNO have been described 
in a number of mammals, but this sensory organ seems absent in adult catarrhines 
and apes, including humans. Until now, only pseudogenes have been isolated in
humans, except one putative V1R (hV1RL1) sequence expressed in the main olfactory
epithelium. We sought to isolate V1R-like genes in a New World monkey species,
the marmoset Callithrix jacchus, that possesses an intact VNO and for which
pheromone-induced behavior has been well documented. Using library screening
approaches, we have identified five different sequences that exhibit
characteristic features of V1R sequences, but that are non-functional
pseudogenes. In an attempt to sort out functional V1R genes, we next cloned by
polymerase chain reaction (PCR) the primate orthologues of hV1RL1. This approach 
was successful for gorilla, chimpanzee and orangutan, but not for the other
species, including marmoset, probably because these species are too divergent
from humans. Chimpanzee and orangutan V1RL1 genes are pseudogenes, whereas the
gorilla counterpart is potentially functional. These observations raise the
possibility that the V1R family has evolved in such a manner in mammals that
every species that relies on a VNO-mediated sensory function possesses its own
set of functional vomeronasal genes.

DOI: 10.1093/chemse/27.6.529 
PMID: 12142329  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3050. Immunogenetics. 2002 Jul;54(4):230-9. Epub 2002 Jun 20.

Extensive Mhc-DQB variation in humans and non-human primate species.

Otting N(1), de Groot NG, Doxiadis GG, Bontrop RE.

Author information: 
(1)Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Department of Immunobiology, Lange Kleiweg
139, 2280 GH Rijswijk, The Netherlands. otting@bprc.nl

Non-human primates are often used in biomedical research, and the application of 
these animals as a model in immune-related diseases necessitates the
characterisation of their MHC system. In particular, the MHC class II regions of 
the chimpanzee (Pan troglodytes), the rhesus macaque (Macaca mulatta)and the
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) have been subject of molecular biological
studies in recent years. In this study the emphasis was on MHC class II genes of 
another macaque species, Macaca fascicularis(crab eating macaque or cynomolgous
monkey). The exon 2 of the Mhc-DQB gene (Mafa-DQB) was sequenced in each of a
random panel of 60 non-pedigreed cynomolgous monkeys. This resulted in the
detection of 23 Mafa-DQB1alleles that had not previously been published. In
addition, unreported alleles were found in chimpanzees, rhesus macaques,
orang-utans (Pongo pygmaeus) and stump-tailed macaques (Macaca arctoides), of
which a few individuals were included in this study. Phylogenetic analyses
confirm the trans-species model of evolution of the MHC-DQBlineages, in which a
group of major alleles is passed on in the phylogeny, and has led to the sharing 
of allelic lineages by different species of non-human primates. The sharing of
alleles is observed only for closely related macaque species. Furthermore, this
manuscript provides an overview of all published, and whenever necessary
corrected, non-human primate Mhc-DQB exon 2 alleles.

DOI: 10.1007/s00251-002-0461-9 
PMID: 12136334  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

