

3053. Dev Psychobiol. 2002 Jul;41(1):37-49.

Morphine administration selectively facilitates social play in common marmosets.

Guard HJ(1), Newman JD, Roberts RL.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Comparative Ethology, National Institute of Child Health and
Human Development, Poolesville, MD 20837, USA.

Common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) form extended families, and several cohorts
of young may reside together. Play is shown extensively among the offspring. We
hypothesized that opiate activity modulates social play, and predicted that
administration of morphine (0.5 mg/kg) would facilitate social play, whereas
pretreatment with naloxone (0.5 mg/kg) would block morphine's effects. Morphine
administration was associated with significantly increased social play, and the
effect of morphine was attributable to the focal subject, since play initiated by
others was unaffected by treatment. Non-social categories of play, such as object
manipulation and locomotor play, and affiliative behaviors, such as time spent
huddled, were unaffected by treatment. Twittering and play face, behaviors used
by young during play, also increased after morphine administration. Pretreatment 
with naloxone blocked morphine's effects. Total activity was significantly
increased by morphine administration. We conclude that social play is
specifically facilitated by opiate activation, whereas other categories of play
behavior and social behavior were unaffected by morphine. Thus, social play
represents a distinct category of social behavior in juvenile common marmosets
with regulatory processes that are unique from other types of social behavior.

Published 2002 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/dev.10043 
PMID: 12115289  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3054. Magn Reson Med. 2002 Jun;47(6):1131-8.

Theory of nonexponential NMR signal decay in liver with iron overload or
superparamagnetic iron oxide particles.

Jensen JH(1), Chandra R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiology, New York University School of Medicine, New York, New
York 10016, USA.

A quantitative theory is proposed for the nonexponential NMR proton signal decay 
observed in liver with iron overload or superparamagnetic iron oxide particles.
This effect occurs for Carr-Purcell-Meiboom-Gill (CPMG) sequences and is argued
to be a direct consequence of the strong magnetic field inhomogeneities generated
by the iron, rather than being due to tissue compartments. An approximate
mathematical form is given for the signal decay, which is fit to experimental
data for samples of rat liver with iron oxide particles, for samples of marmoset 
liver with hemosiderosis, and for in vivo human liver with hereditary
hemochromatosis. The fitting parameters obtained are consistent with the pattern 
of iron deposition determined from histology. For the case of hereditary
hemochromatosis, a good correlation is found between a parameter characterizing
the nonexponential decay and the iron concentration. Implications for practical
MR quantification of hepatic iron are discussed.

Copyright 2002 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/mrm.10170 
PMID: 12111959  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

