

3055. Riv Biol. 2002 Jan-Apr;95(1):75-100.

The concept of species and the foundations of biology, a case study: the
Callithrix jacchus group (Primates-Platyrrhini).

Veracini C(1), Galleni L, Forti M.

Author information: 
(1)Centro Interdisciplinare per lo Studio dei Sistemi Complessi, Università di
Pisa, Pisa, Italy. cpfveracini@yahoo.com

The axiomatic theory presented in Galleni and Forti [1999], being part of the
foundational programme of Ennio De Giorgi, is based on the fundamental notions of
quality, relation, operation and collection, and provides a very general
axiomatization of the biological notions of living object, generation, species
and speciation. Within this theoretical framework we consider here a difficult
case of classification of species: the Callithrix jacchus group of the New World 
monkeys. Although the morphological analysis strongly suggests the individuation 
of six different species, nevertheless several experiments of crossing give
evidence to fertility of hybrids. Since both the morphological and the
hybridological criteria have shown to be of enormous importance in actual
classification of species, this apparent contradiction seems very disappointing. 
Our axiomatization of speciation processes as operations acting in special time
intervals permits to avoid the contradiction by allowing for individuals which,
during such special periods, may belong to more than one species. Therefore we
assume that one or more speciation processes are developing, starting from a
unique protospecies and differentiating in six new ones. In order to obtain more 
evidence of these processes, new observations and suitable experiments are
needed.


PMID: 12109272  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3056. Arch Toxicol. 2002 Jun;76(5-6):360-6. Epub 2002 Apr 11.

Low doses of 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo- p-dioxin increase transforming growth
factor beta and cause myocardial fibrosis in marmosets ( Callithrix jacchus).

Riecke K(1), Grimm D, Shakibaei M, Kossmehl P, Schulze-Tanzil G, Paul M,
Stahlmann R.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Clinical Pharmacology and Toxicology (Dept. of Toxicology),
Benjamin Franklin Medical Center, Freie Universität Berlin, Garystrasse 5, 14195 
Berlin, Germany.

Epidemiological studies have suggested an association between exposure to dioxins
and cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. However, cardiotoxic effects of low
doses of 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo- p-dioxin (TCDD) in animals have not been
reported so far. We studied the hearts of male marmosets ( Callithrix
jacchus)after treatment with single subcutaneous doses of 1, 10 or 100 ng TCDD/kg
body weight or vehicle (toluene/DMSO 1+2 v/v, 100 microl/kg body weight). The
animals were killed 2 or 4 weeks after treatment. Tissue samples of left
ventricular myocardium were stained with picrosirius red and examined
histologically along with quantitative image analysis. Extracellular matrix
proteins were additionally analysed by western blotting. Monkeys showed no overt 
signs of toxicity nor did their relative heart weights differ significantly
depending on treatment. Histology revealed an increase of picrosirius
red-positive area above control values in 2 of 4 (1 ng TCDD/kg body weight), 6 of
12 (10 ng/kg) and 6 of 10 (100 ng/kg) marmosets. Western blotting confirmed these
histological findings showing an increase of collagen, fibronectin and laminin in
the hearts of TCDD-treated animals. Western blotting additionally showed an
increased concentration of transforming growth factor beta1 (TGF-beta1) as well
as TGF-beta receptor type I which could be a functional link to the effects on
extracellular matrix. Our findings might explain the association of TCDD exposure
with increased cardiovascular mortality observed in epidemiological studies and
should stimulate further research on the role of changes in the extracellular
matrix in the toxic effects of dioxins and related substances on other organs.

DOI: 10.1007/s00204-002-0338-6 
PMID: 12107654  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

