

3057. J Neurosci. 2002 Jul 1;22(13):5705-12.

Functional domains in dorsal striatum of the nonhuman primate are defined by the 
dynamic behavior of dopamine.

Cragg SJ(1), Hille CJ, Greenfield SA.

Author information: 
(1)University Department of Pharmacology, Oxford OX1 3QT, United Kingdom.
stephanie.cragg@pharm.ox.ac.uk

The dorsal striatum comprises a continuum of distinct functional domains, limbic,
associative, and sensorimotor. In the primate it exclusively subdivides further
into two nuclei, the putamen and caudate. Dopamine (DA) transmission is
differentially affected between these nuclei in neurodegenerative diseases such
as Parkinson's and by psychostimulants such as cocaine. Because rodent systems
can offer only limited insight into DA systems of the human brain, a fuller
appreciation of DA transmission and its role in dysfunction requires direct study
in primates. DA behavior was explored in the major functional domains of the
caudate nucleus and compared with the putamen, using fast-scan cyclic voltammetry
in striatal sections from the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). There was
domain-specific variation in extracellular DA transients [i.e., concentration
([DA](o)) released by a single stimulus and the rate maximum of DA uptake,
V(max)]. Across nuclei, functional rather than anatomical regions were
differentiated by these dynamics. The largest, fastest DA transients were at
motor-associated loci. Evoked [DA](o) at physiological frequencies was
differently frequency-sensitive between functional domains but not between
anatomical nuclei. In contrast, presynaptic depression was not an index of
regional differentiation, recovering with similar kinetics at all loci. Within a 
given functional domain of dorsal striatum, the dynamics of DA release and uptake
are similar for the putamen and the caudate nucleus. Conversely, distinct
functional domains are defined by these DA dynamics, in a manner more marked in
primates than in rodents. These data from the primate brain highlight differences
in DA availability that may be central to DA function and dysfunction in the
human.

DOI: 20026534 
PMCID: PMC6758186
PMID: 12097522  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3058. ALTEX. 2002;19 Suppl 1:64-72.

Immortalisation of ovarian granulosa and Theca cells of the marmoset monkey
Calllithrix jacchus.

Husen B(1), Lieder K, Marten A, Jurdzinski A, Fuhrmann K, Petry H, Lüke A,
Einspanier A.

Author information: 
(1)Deutsches Primatenzentrum, D-Göttingen, Germany. bhusen@www.dpz.gwdg.de

In view of the increasing need for laboratory primates in biomedical research it 
is desirable to develop appropriate primate-specific cell culture models that
could prevent or significantly reduce the increasing use of primary cultures and 
experiments with living animals. Follicular granulosa and theca cells are
essential for the control of hormone-dependent processes such as the ovarian
cycle and pregnancy, but also for the occurrence of hormone-dependent diseases.
For this reason it is of great interest to know more about control mechanisms
existing in these follicular cell types and the effect of pharmacological or
toxicological agents on them. An immortalisation protocol for the two ovarian
cell types of the marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus) has been developed. All
cell lines established so far were examined with regard to the maintenance of
known, tissue-specific features (e.g. hormone responsiveness and enzyme
expression). The results obtained indicate that it is worth while cloning and
characterising the cell lines in more detail so that they could be used after an 
adequate validation as a defined test system both for basic research as well as
for pharmacological or toxicological screening.


PMID: 12096332  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

