

3059. Hum Reprod. 2002 Jul;17(7):1692-703.

Infant feeding with soy formula milk: effects on the testis and on blood
testosterone levels in marmoset monkeys during the period of neonatal testicular 
activity.

Sharpe RM(1), Martin B, Morris K, Greig I, McKinnell C, McNeilly AS, Walker M.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Human Reproductive Sciences Unit, Centre for Reproductive Biology, 37
Chalmers Street, Edinburgh EH3 9ET, UK. r.sharpe@hrsu.mrc.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: This study has addressed concerns about possible effects of feeding
human infants soy formula milk (SFM).
METHODS: This is a feeding study in marmosets, using a mainly co-twin design.
From 4-5 until 35-45 days of age, co-twin males were fed by hand with either
standard (cow) formula milk (SMA = controls) or with SFM for approximately 8 h
each day (2 h at weekends) and intake related to bodyweight. Blood samples were
collected at 18-20 and at 35-45 days of age in 13 sets of co-twins plus two
non-twin males per group and, at the later age, seven sets of co-twins were
killed and the testes and pituitary gland fixed for cell counts.
RESULTS: Weight gain and formula intake were similar in both feeding groups.
SMA-fed males had mean testosterone levels of 2.8-3.1 ng/ml, typical of the
"neonatal testosterone rise", whereas SFM-fed males exhibited consistently lower 
mean levels (1.2-2.6 ng/ml); paired comparison in SMA-and SFM-fed co-twins at day
35-45 revealed 53-70% lower levels in 11 of 13 co-twins fed with SFM (P = 0.004).
Further evidence for suppression of testosterone levels in SFM-fed males came
from comparison of the frequency of low testosterone levels (<0.5 ng/ml). In
historical controls aged 35-45 days, two out of 22 values were <0.5 ng/ml, a
similar frequency as found in control SMA-fed males (one out of 15 values <0.5
ng/ml). In contrast, 12 out of 15 values for SFM-fed males were <0.5 ng/ml (P <
0.001). There was no consistent relationship between SFM intake/g and
testosterone levels. Paradoxically, the mean number of Leydig cells per testis
was increased by 74% (P < 0.001) in co-twins fed SFM, when compared with their
SMA-fed brothers, whereas no significant changes were found in numbers of Sertoli
and germ cells. Because of the lack of gonadotrophin assays, the number of
immunopositive LHbeta and FSHbeta cells in the pituitary gland, and their ratio, 
were determined but no consistent difference was found between SMA- and SFM-fed
twins.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on the average isoflavone content of the SFM brand used,
intake of isoflavones was estimated at 1.6-3.5 mg/kg/day in the SFM-fed marmosets
which is 40-87% of that reported in 4 month human infants fed on a 100% SFM diet.
It is therefore considered likely that similar, or larger, effects to those shown
here in marmosets may occur in human male infants fed with SFM. Whether the
changes described result in longer-term effects is under investigation.

DOI: 10.1093/humrep/17.7.1692 
PMID: 12093826  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3060. Contemp Top Lab Anim Sci. 1999 Sep;38(5):27-31.

Puzzle Feeders and Gum Feeders as Environmental Enrichment for Common Marmosets.

Roberts RL(1), Roytburd LA, Newman JD.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Comparative Ethology, National Institute of Child Health and
Human Development, PO Box 529, Poolesville, MD 20837.

Common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus jacchus) are highly social New World monkeys
that consume a principally gummivorous and insectivorous diet. We examined the
efficacy of two types of foraging devices, Puzzle-Feeders(tm) and gum feeders, as
environmental enrichment for marmosets housed singly (n = 16) or in sibling (n = 
4) and heterosexual (n = 8) pairs. In experiment 1, marmosets were exposed to
each of the two types of foraging devices for three hours, once per week for two 
weeks. Thirty-minute observations were conducted at the beginning and end of each
exposure period. Marmosets in all housing conditions experienced significant
reductions in the frequency of stereotyped pacing and significantly less time
sitting still while exposed to the foraging devices. Marmosets experienced
significantly lower levels of feeder use and significantly more time sitting
still at the end of the three-hour exposure than at the beginning. Marmosets that
were singly or sibling housed used the devices the most and had the largest
reductions in time spent sitting still during enrichment. In experiment 2, singly
housed marmosets were given two types of gum feeders, a wooden and a Gumabone(tm)
gum feeder, each for a week-long period. Thirty-minute observations were
conducted three times per week immediately after loading the feeders with fresh
gum. The wooden gum feeders were heavily gouged during the week-long exposure,
although significantly less use of both types of gum feeders was observed on the 
third and fifth days. These results indicated that marmosets in variable social
housing conditions can benefit from environmental enrichment additional to social
housing, and that foraging enrichment promotes increased non-stereotyped movement
and decreased pacing in this species.


PMID: 12086412 

