

307. Ecol Evol. 2020 Apr 12;10(11):4691-4701. doi: 10.1002/ece3.6224. eCollection 2020
Jun.

What smells? Developing in-field methods to characterize the chemical composition
of wild mammalian scent cues.

Thompson CL(1), Bottenberg KN(1), Lantz AW(2), de Oliveira MAB(3), Melo LCO(3),
Vinyard CJ(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Sciences Grand Valley State University Allendale MI
USA.
(2)Department of Chemistry Grand Valley State University Allendale MI USA.
(3)Departamento de Morfologia e Fisiologia Animal Universidade Federal Rural de
Pernambuco Recife Brazil.
(4)Department of Anatomy & Neurobiology Northeast Ohio Medical University
Rootstown OH USA.

Olfactory cues play an important role in mammalian biology, but have been
challenging to assess in the field. Current methods pose problematic issues with 
sample storage and transportation, limiting our ability to connect chemical
variation in scents with relevant ecological and behavioral contexts. Real-time, 
in-field analysis via portable gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) has
the potential to overcome these issues, but with trade-offs of reduced
sensitivity and compound mass range. We field-tested the ability of portable
GC-MS to support two representative applications of chemical ecology research
with a wild arboreal primate, common marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus). We
developed methods to (a) evaluate the chemical composition of marmoset scent
marks deposited at feeding sites and (b) characterize the scent profiles of
exudates eaten by marmosets. We successfully collected marmoset scent marks
across several canopy heights, with the portable GC-MS detecting known components
of marmoset glandular secretions and differentiating these from in-field
controls. Likewise, variation in the chemical profile of scent marks demonstrated
a significant correlation with marmoset feeding behavior, indicating these
scents' biological relevance. The portable GC-MS also delineated species-specific
olfactory signatures of exudates fed on by marmosets. Despite the trade-offs,
portable GC-MS represents a viable option for characterizing olfactory compounds 
used by wild mammals, yielding biologically relevant data. While the decision to 
adopt portable GC-MS will likely depend on site- and project-specific needs, our 
ability to conduct two example applications under relatively challenging field
conditions bodes well for the versatility of in-field GC-MS.

© 2020 The Authors. Ecology and Evolution published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/ece3.6224 
PMCID: PMC7297786
PMID: 32551053 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest to
declare.


308. Am J Primatol. 2020 Aug;82(8):e23159. doi: 10.1002/ajp.23159. Epub 2020 Jun 9.

Early learning in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus): Behavior in the
family group is related to preadolescent cognitive performance.

Ash H(1), Ziegler TE(1), Colman RJ(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin, Madison, 
Wisconsin.
(2)Department of Cell and Regenerative Biology, Wisconsin Institutes for Medical 
Research, University of Wisconsin School of Medicine and Public Health, Madison, 
Wisconsin.

Early environment can have a major impact on development, with family life known 
to play an important role. Longitudinal studies can therefore help increase our
understanding of variance in cognitive abilities in young animals, as well as
over time. We followed 22 marmosets (11 male and 11 female) from infancy through 
to early adolescence. At 3 months old, the marmosets were trained to reliably
touch a rewarded stimulus. At 5 months, behavior was observed within the natal
group. At 9 months, the marmosets were given a visual discrimination task to
assess learning ability. Mann-Whitney U tests found no sex or family size
differences in number of errors at 3 or 9 months. While no significant
relationships were found between behavior in the family and learning at 3 months,
significant negative correlations were found between duration spent in locomotion
and learning errors (p = .05), as well as between frequency of calm vocalizations
and learning errors (p = .001) at 9 months. A U-shape curve was found between
amount of social play and learning at 9 months. Positive family interactions,
including moderate amounts of play, as well as calm individual behavior, may
therefore be important in learning. This study sheds light on cognitive
development in much younger marmosets than previously studied, and helps increase
understanding of how individual differences in learning may arise.

© 2020 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.23159 
PMCID: PMC7440670
PMID: 32515834  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

