

3072. Brain. 2002 Jun;125(Pt 6):1283-96.

Activity of a newly identified serine protease in CNS demyelination.

Scarisbrick IA(1), Blaber SI, Lucchinetti CF, Genain CP, Blaber M, Rodriguez M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology and Immunology, Mayo Medical and Graduate Schools,
Rochester, Minnesota 55905, USA. scarisbrick.isobel@mayo.edu

We have identified a novel serine protease, myelencephalon-specific protease
(MSP), which is preferentially expressed in the adult CNS, and therein, is
abundant in both neurones and oligodendroglia. To determine the potential
activity of MSP in CNS demyelination, we examined its expression in multiple
sclerosis lesions and in two animal models of multiple sclerosis: Theiler's
murine encephalomyelitis virus (TMEV) and myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein
(MOG)-induced experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE) in marmosets. High
levels of MSP were present within infiltrating mononuclear cells, including
macrophages and T cells, which characteristically fill sites of demyelination,
both in multiple sclerosis lesions and in animal models of this disease. The
functional consequence of excess MSP on oligodendroglia was determined in vitro
by evaluating the effects of recombinant MSP (r-MSP) on oligodendrocyte survival 
and process number. Application of excess r-MSP resulted in a dramatic loss of
processes from differentiated oligodendrocytes, and a parallel decrease in
process outgrowth from immature cells. Transfection of oligodendrocyte
progenitors with an MSP-green fluorescent protein construct produced similar
changes in oligodendrocyte process number. Importantly, r-MSP did not affect
oligodendrocyte survival or differentiation towards the sulphatide-positive
lineage. We further demonstrate that myelin basic protein, and to a lesser extent
myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein, can serve as MSP substrates. These studies
support the hypothesis that excess MSP, as is present in inflammatory CNS
lesions, promotes demyelination.

DOI: 10.1093/brain/awf142 
PMID: 12023317  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3073. Biol Reprod. 2002 Jun;66(6):1681-8.

Analysis of a human sperm CD52 glycoform in primates: identification of an animal
model for immunocontraceptive vaccine development.

McCauley TC(1), Kurth BE, Norton EJ, Klotz KL, Westbrook VA, Rao AJ, Herr JC,
Diekman AB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology, University of Virginia Health System,
Charlottesville, Virginia 22908, USA.

Sperm agglutination antigen-1 (SAGA-1) is a human male reproductive tract
glycoform of CD52. Unique modification of CD52 N-linked oligosaccharide chains in
the epididymis and vas deferens results in the appearance of a carbohydrate
epitope that is localized over the entire surface of human spermatozoa. SAGA-1
was characterized by the sperm-inhibitory murine monoclonal antibody (mAb) S19,
and it is the target antigen of a human mAb (H6-3C4) associated with
antibody-mediated infertility. Collectively, sperm surface localization, antibody
inhibition of sperm function, and potential reproductive-tissue specificity
identify SAGA-1 as an attractive candidate contraceptive immunogen. To establish 
an animal model for the study of SAGA-1 in immunologic infertility and
immunocontraceptive development, we investigated the appearance of the S19
carbohydrate epitope in nonhuman primates. The S19 mAb demonstrated little to no 
immunoreactivity by Western blot analysis with protein extracts of spermatozoa
from the baboon, marmoset, bonnet, cynomolgus, and pigtailed macaques.
Immunohistochemical analysis identified CD52 in the bonnet monkey epididymis;
however, the N-linked carbohydrate moiety recognized by the S19 mAb, and unique
to SAGA-1, was absent. In contrast, the S19 carbohydrate epitope was identified
in chimpanzee sperm extracts by Western blot analysis and in chimpanzee
epididymal tissue sections by immunohistochemical analysis, indicating that it is
conserved in this close relative of the human. Chimpanzee testis, seminal
vesicle, and prostate do not express the S19 epitope. Although anti-CD52
immunoreactivity was identified in the spleen, the carbohydrate moiety recognized
by the S19 mAb was absent, corroborating data in the human that demonstrated
tissue-specific glycosylation of sperm CD52. Immunofluorescent analysis indicated
that the chimpanzee homologue of sperm CD52 was present over the entire
spermatozoon. In addition, the S19 mAb agglutinated chimpanzee spermatozoa in a
manner similar to the effect observed on human spermatozoa. These data indicate
that the distinctive carbohydrate moiety of human sperm CD52 is present in the
chimpanzee, and they identify the chimpanzee as the most appropriate primate
model to study the potential of this unique CD52 glycoform as a contraceptive
immunogen.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod66.6.1681 
PMID: 12021047  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

