

3073. Biol Reprod. 2002 Jun;66(6):1681-8.

Analysis of a human sperm CD52 glycoform in primates: identification of an animal
model for immunocontraceptive vaccine development.

McCauley TC(1), Kurth BE, Norton EJ, Klotz KL, Westbrook VA, Rao AJ, Herr JC,
Diekman AB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology, University of Virginia Health System,
Charlottesville, Virginia 22908, USA.

Sperm agglutination antigen-1 (SAGA-1) is a human male reproductive tract
glycoform of CD52. Unique modification of CD52 N-linked oligosaccharide chains in
the epididymis and vas deferens results in the appearance of a carbohydrate
epitope that is localized over the entire surface of human spermatozoa. SAGA-1
was characterized by the sperm-inhibitory murine monoclonal antibody (mAb) S19,
and it is the target antigen of a human mAb (H6-3C4) associated with
antibody-mediated infertility. Collectively, sperm surface localization, antibody
inhibition of sperm function, and potential reproductive-tissue specificity
identify SAGA-1 as an attractive candidate contraceptive immunogen. To establish 
an animal model for the study of SAGA-1 in immunologic infertility and
immunocontraceptive development, we investigated the appearance of the S19
carbohydrate epitope in nonhuman primates. The S19 mAb demonstrated little to no 
immunoreactivity by Western blot analysis with protein extracts of spermatozoa
from the baboon, marmoset, bonnet, cynomolgus, and pigtailed macaques.
Immunohistochemical analysis identified CD52 in the bonnet monkey epididymis;
however, the N-linked carbohydrate moiety recognized by the S19 mAb, and unique
to SAGA-1, was absent. In contrast, the S19 carbohydrate epitope was identified
in chimpanzee sperm extracts by Western blot analysis and in chimpanzee
epididymal tissue sections by immunohistochemical analysis, indicating that it is
conserved in this close relative of the human. Chimpanzee testis, seminal
vesicle, and prostate do not express the S19 epitope. Although anti-CD52
immunoreactivity was identified in the spleen, the carbohydrate moiety recognized
by the S19 mAb was absent, corroborating data in the human that demonstrated
tissue-specific glycosylation of sperm CD52. Immunofluorescent analysis indicated
that the chimpanzee homologue of sperm CD52 was present over the entire
spermatozoon. In addition, the S19 mAb agglutinated chimpanzee spermatozoa in a
manner similar to the effect observed on human spermatozoa. These data indicate
that the distinctive carbohydrate moiety of human sperm CD52 is present in the
chimpanzee, and they identify the chimpanzee as the most appropriate primate
model to study the potential of this unique CD52 glycoform as a contraceptive
immunogen.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod66.6.1681 
PMID: 12021047  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3074. Reprod Fertil Dev. 2001;13(7-8):599-607.

The evolution of neuroendocrine mechanisms regulating sexual behaviour in female 
primates.

Dixson A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Reproduction of Endangered Species, Zoological Society of San
Diego, California 92112-0551, USA. adixson@sandiegozoo.org

The common marmoset is a small New World primate that lives in extended family
groups. Female marmosets show rhythmic changes in proceptivity during their
28-Day ovarian cycle, but fluctuations in sexual receptivity are relatively
subtle. Receptivity persists even after ovariectomy and adrenalectomy in the
female marmoset. In the intact female, increases in proceptivity at mid cycle are
due to the activational effects of oestradiol. Treatment of the ovariectomized
female with oestradiol-17beta stimulates proceptivity and this effect is blocked 
by thermal or excitotoxic (neuronal cell body specific) lesions in the anterior
or medial hypothalamus. Implantation of oestradiol into the anterior hypothalamus
(via guide cannulae) also activates proceptivity. Luteinizing hormone releasing
hormone (LHRH) may also form part of the neuroendocrine mechanism controlling
proceptivity in the intact female, given that exogenous LHRH stimulates
proceptivity in ovariectomized, oestrogen-primed marmosets. These effects of
oestradiol (and LHRH) on proceptive displays are much more pronounced than any
effects involving sexual receptivity. Conversely, treatment of the ovariectomized
female with progesterone, at doses sufficient to produce luteal phase
concentrations of circulating hormone, causes a marked suppression of
proceptivity, but only small decreases in sexual receptivity. These experiments
on marmosets remain some of the very few studies to define how hormones influence
the brain and sexual behaviour in female primates. They support the conclusion
that sexual receptivity is not under rigid neuroendocrine control in female
anthropoids, and that there is no peri-ovulatory period of oestrus, such as
occurs in most non-primate mammals.

DOI: 10.1071/rd01075 
PMID: 11999311  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

