

3074. Reprod Fertil Dev. 2001;13(7-8):599-607.

The evolution of neuroendocrine mechanisms regulating sexual behaviour in female 
primates.

Dixson A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Reproduction of Endangered Species, Zoological Society of San
Diego, California 92112-0551, USA. adixson@sandiegozoo.org

The common marmoset is a small New World primate that lives in extended family
groups. Female marmosets show rhythmic changes in proceptivity during their
28-Day ovarian cycle, but fluctuations in sexual receptivity are relatively
subtle. Receptivity persists even after ovariectomy and adrenalectomy in the
female marmoset. In the intact female, increases in proceptivity at mid cycle are
due to the activational effects of oestradiol. Treatment of the ovariectomized
female with oestradiol-17beta stimulates proceptivity and this effect is blocked 
by thermal or excitotoxic (neuronal cell body specific) lesions in the anterior
or medial hypothalamus. Implantation of oestradiol into the anterior hypothalamus
(via guide cannulae) also activates proceptivity. Luteinizing hormone releasing
hormone (LHRH) may also form part of the neuroendocrine mechanism controlling
proceptivity in the intact female, given that exogenous LHRH stimulates
proceptivity in ovariectomized, oestrogen-primed marmosets. These effects of
oestradiol (and LHRH) on proceptive displays are much more pronounced than any
effects involving sexual receptivity. Conversely, treatment of the ovariectomized
female with progesterone, at doses sufficient to produce luteal phase
concentrations of circulating hormone, causes a marked suppression of
proceptivity, but only small decreases in sexual receptivity. These experiments
on marmosets remain some of the very few studies to define how hormones influence
the brain and sexual behaviour in female primates. They support the conclusion
that sexual receptivity is not under rigid neuroendocrine control in female
anthropoids, and that there is no peri-ovulatory period of oestrus, such as
occurs in most non-primate mammals.

DOI: 10.1071/rd01075 
PMID: 11999311  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3075. Reprod Fertil Dev. 2001;13(7-8):557-66.

Angiogenesis in the primate ovary.

Fraser HM(1), Wulff C.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Human Reproductive Sciences Unit, Centre for Reproductive Biology,
Edinburgh, UK. h.fraser@hrsu.mrc.ac.uk

The ovary is distinctive in undergoing cyclic changes in angiogenesis that play a
critical role in the normal functioning of the female reproductive system. The
current paper describes the use of the marmoset monkey as an in vivo model in
which the cellular and molecular regulation of angiogenesis in the ovary can be
investigated and the effects of manipulation of angiogenic factors elucidated.
The studies are based on quantifying changes in blood vessel area and endothelial
cell proliferation, monitoring changes in expression patterns of putative
angiogenic regulatory factors and targeting these factors by antagonists in vivo.
Quantification of endothelial cell proliferation shows that angiogenesis
commences in the pre-antral follicle, increases with follicular development and
becomes intense in the early corpus luteum. Vascular endothelial growth factor
(VEGF), a principal angiogenic factor, is synthesized by the developing follicle 
and corpus luteum. Administration of specific antagonists in vivo for selected
periods of the ovulatory cycle shows that inhibition of VEGF results in a marked 
decrease in endothelial cell proliferation in the follicle and is accompanied by 
a decline in granulosa cell proliferation. Inhibition during the early or
mid-luteal phase results in a marked suppression in luteal angiogenesis, failure 
of development of the microvascular tree and suppression of luteal function.
Manipulation of angiogenesis should be a novel approach to either promoting or
inhibiting the normal processes of folliculogenesis, ovulation and corpus luteum 
function.

DOI: 10.1071/rd01055 
PMID: 11999306  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

