

3075. Reprod Fertil Dev. 2001;13(7-8):557-66.

Angiogenesis in the primate ovary.

Fraser HM(1), Wulff C.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Human Reproductive Sciences Unit, Centre for Reproductive Biology,
Edinburgh, UK. h.fraser@hrsu.mrc.ac.uk

The ovary is distinctive in undergoing cyclic changes in angiogenesis that play a
critical role in the normal functioning of the female reproductive system. The
current paper describes the use of the marmoset monkey as an in vivo model in
which the cellular and molecular regulation of angiogenesis in the ovary can be
investigated and the effects of manipulation of angiogenic factors elucidated.
The studies are based on quantifying changes in blood vessel area and endothelial
cell proliferation, monitoring changes in expression patterns of putative
angiogenic regulatory factors and targeting these factors by antagonists in vivo.
Quantification of endothelial cell proliferation shows that angiogenesis
commences in the pre-antral follicle, increases with follicular development and
becomes intense in the early corpus luteum. Vascular endothelial growth factor
(VEGF), a principal angiogenic factor, is synthesized by the developing follicle 
and corpus luteum. Administration of specific antagonists in vivo for selected
periods of the ovulatory cycle shows that inhibition of VEGF results in a marked 
decrease in endothelial cell proliferation in the follicle and is accompanied by 
a decline in granulosa cell proliferation. Inhibition during the early or
mid-luteal phase results in a marked suppression in luteal angiogenesis, failure 
of development of the microvascular tree and suppression of luteal function.
Manipulation of angiogenesis should be a novel approach to either promoting or
inhibiting the normal processes of folliculogenesis, ovulation and corpus luteum 
function.

DOI: 10.1071/rd01055 
PMID: 11999306  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3076. Reprod Fertil Dev. 2001;13(7-8):517-22.

Embryo implantation and embryonic stem cell development in primates.

Hearn JP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Research School of Biological Sciences, Australian National University,
Canberra, ACT. John.Hearn@anu.edu.au

The endocrine dialogue that results in implantation and the successful
establishment of pregnancy in primates relies on embryonic secretion of chorionic
gonadotrophin (CG). This hormone is a signal of embryo viability and capacity to 
support the corpus luteum. The expression of CG is apparently restricted to
primates. Active or passive immunization of marmoset monkeys against the beta
subunit of CG prevented implantation and early pregnancy, without disrupting the 
ovarian cycle. Studies of individual embryos cultured in vitro showed that CG is 
secreted at low levels by the blastocyst from before attachment, with secretion
increasing exponentially after attachment. Gonadotrophin releasing hormone (GnRH)
was also secreted, from mid-blastocyst stages, before the detection of CG. The
secretion of GnRH by the embryo continued through the attachment and outgrowth
stages of embryonic differentiation in vitro. The hypothetical role of GnRH in
regulating CG release during implantation was tested in recently completed
experiments. Individual embryos cultured with GnRH, or with agonist or antagonist
to GnRH, showed significant variations in their secretion of CG and in their
survival in culture, suggesting a causal relationship between these hormones.
Embryos cultured with natural GnRH showed enhanced growth and development.
Embryonic stem cells, from the inner cell mass of marmoset and rhesus monkeys,
were the first primate embryonic stem cells to be isolated and characterized,
enabling the subsequent isolation of human embryonic stem cells.

DOI: 10.1071/rd01068 
PMID: 11999301  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

