

3076. Reprod Fertil Dev. 2001;13(7-8):517-22.

Embryo implantation and embryonic stem cell development in primates.

Hearn JP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Research School of Biological Sciences, Australian National University,
Canberra, ACT. John.Hearn@anu.edu.au

The endocrine dialogue that results in implantation and the successful
establishment of pregnancy in primates relies on embryonic secretion of chorionic
gonadotrophin (CG). This hormone is a signal of embryo viability and capacity to 
support the corpus luteum. The expression of CG is apparently restricted to
primates. Active or passive immunization of marmoset monkeys against the beta
subunit of CG prevented implantation and early pregnancy, without disrupting the 
ovarian cycle. Studies of individual embryos cultured in vitro showed that CG is 
secreted at low levels by the blastocyst from before attachment, with secretion
increasing exponentially after attachment. Gonadotrophin releasing hormone (GnRH)
was also secreted, from mid-blastocyst stages, before the detection of CG. The
secretion of GnRH by the embryo continued through the attachment and outgrowth
stages of embryonic differentiation in vitro. The hypothetical role of GnRH in
regulating CG release during implantation was tested in recently completed
experiments. Individual embryos cultured with GnRH, or with agonist or antagonist
to GnRH, showed significant variations in their secretion of CG and in their
survival in culture, suggesting a causal relationship between these hormones.
Embryos cultured with natural GnRH showed enhanced growth and development.
Embryonic stem cells, from the inner cell mass of marmoset and rhesus monkeys,
were the first primate embryonic stem cells to be isolated and characterized,
enabling the subsequent isolation of human embryonic stem cells.

DOI: 10.1071/rd01068 
PMID: 11999301  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3077. J Med Primatol. 2001 Dec;30(6):299-303.

Molecular cloning of three nonhuman primate follicle stimulating hormone
beta-subunit cDNAs.

Wolfgang MJ(1), Grendell RL, Golos TG.

Author information: 
(1)Wisconsin Regional Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin, Madison
53715-1299, USA.

The follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) beta-subunit cDNAs were cloned and
sequenced for an old world primate, the rhesus monkey (Macaca mulatta), and two
New World primates, the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) and pygmy marmoset
(Cebuella pygmaea). The cDNA and predicted amino acid sequences of the rhesus
monkey FSH beta-subunit were related most closely to the human FSH beta-subunit
(> 96% identity). The common and pygmy marmosets have identical FSH beta-subunit 
cDNAs, whereas the marmoset FSH beta-subunit diverges from the rhesus and human
molecules with less than 93% identity. These results have significance for the
implementation of assisted reproductive technologies in the nonhuman primate as
well as the evolution of genes encoding reproductive hormones.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1600-0684.2001.300602.x 
PMID: 11990528  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

