

3079. J Neurophysiol. 2002 May;87(5):2237-61.

Neural representations of sinusoidal amplitude and frequency modulations in the
primary auditory cortex of awake primates.

Liang L(1), Lu T, Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.

We investigated neural coding of sinusoidally modulated tones (sAM and sFM) in
the primary auditory cortex (A1) of awake marmoset monkeys, demonstrating that
there are systematic cortical representations of embedded temporal features that 
are based on both average discharge rate and stimulus-synchronized discharge
patterns. The rate-representation appears to be coded alongside the
stimulus-synchronized discharges, such that the auditory cortex has access to
both rate and temporal representations of the stimulus at high and low
frequencies, respectively. Furthermore, we showed that individual auditory
cortical neurons, as well as populations of neurons, have common features in
their responses to both sAM and sFM stimuli. These results may explain the
similarities in the perception of sAM and sFM stimuli as well as the different
perceptual qualities effected by different modulation frequencies. The main
findings include the following. 1) Responses of cortical neurons to sAM and sFM
stimuli in awake marmosets were generally much stronger than responses to
unmodulated tones. Some neurons responded to sAM or sFM stimuli but not to pure
tones. 2) The discharge rate-based modulation transfer function typically had a
band-pass shape and was centered at a preferred modulation frequency (rBMF).
Population-averaged mean firing rate peaked at 16- to 32-Hz modulation frequency,
indicating that the A1 was maximally excited by this frequency range of temporal 
modulations. 3) Only approximately 60% of recorded units showed statistically
significant discharge synchrony to the modulation waveform of sAM or sFM stimuli.
The discharge synchrony-based best modulation frequency (tBMF) was typically
lower than the rBMF measured from the same neuron. The distribution of rBMF over 
the population of neurons was approximately one octave higher than the
distribution of tBMF. 4) There was a high degree of similarity between cortical
responses to sAM and sFM stimuli that was reflected in both discharge rate- or
synchrony-based response measures. 5) Inhibition appeared to be a contributing
factor in limiting responses at modulation frequencies above the rBMF of a
neuron. And 6) neurons with shorter response latencies tended to have higher tBMF
and maximum discharge synchrony frequency than those with longer response
latencies. rBMF was not significantly correlated with the minimum response
latency.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.2002.87.5.2237 
PMID: 11976364  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3080. Braz J Med Biol Res. 2002 Apr;35(4):437-44.

The distribution of presumptive thoracic paraganglionic tissue in the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Clarke JA(1), de B Daly M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Royal Free and University College Medical School,
London, UK. f.leitao@rfc.ucl.ac.uk

The aortic-pulmonary regions (APR) of seven adult marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) 
and the region of the right subclavian artery of a further three marmosets were
diffusion-fixed with 10% buffered formol-saline solution. In both regions serial 
5 microm sections were cut and stained by the Martius yellow, brilliant crystal
scarlet and soluble blue method. Presumptive thoracic paraganglionic (PTP) tissue
was only observed in the APR. PTP tissue was composed of small groups of cells
that varied in size and number. The distribution of the groups of cells was
extremely variable, so much so that it would be misleading to attempt to classify
their position; they were not circumscribed by a connective tissue capsule, but
were always related to the thoracic branches of the left vagus nerve. The cells
lay in loose areolar tissue characteristic of this part of the mediastinum and
received their blood supply from small adjacent connective tissue arterioles.
Unlike the paraganglionic tissue found in the carotid body the cells in the
thorax did not appear to have a profuse capillary blood supply. There was,
however, a close cellular-neural relationship. The cells, 10-15 microm in
diameter, were oval or rounded in appearance and possessed a central nucleus and 
clear cytoplasm. No evidence was found that these cells possessed a 'companion'
cell reminiscent of the arrangement of type 1 and type 2 cells in the carotid
body. In conclusion, we found evidence of presumed paraganglionic tissue in the
APR of the marmoset which, however, did not show the characteristic histological 
features of the aortic body chemoreceptors that have been described in some
non-primate mammals. A survey of the mediastina of other non-human primates is
required to establish whether this finding is atypical for these animals.

DOI: 10.1590/s0100-879x2002000400005 
PMID: 11960192  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

