

308. Am J Primatol. 2020 Aug;82(8):e23159. doi: 10.1002/ajp.23159. Epub 2020 Jun 9.

Early learning in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus): Behavior in the
family group is related to preadolescent cognitive performance.

Ash H(1), Ziegler TE(1), Colman RJ(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin, Madison, 
Wisconsin.
(2)Department of Cell and Regenerative Biology, Wisconsin Institutes for Medical 
Research, University of Wisconsin School of Medicine and Public Health, Madison, 
Wisconsin.

Early environment can have a major impact on development, with family life known 
to play an important role. Longitudinal studies can therefore help increase our
understanding of variance in cognitive abilities in young animals, as well as
over time. We followed 22 marmosets (11 male and 11 female) from infancy through 
to early adolescence. At 3 months old, the marmosets were trained to reliably
touch a rewarded stimulus. At 5 months, behavior was observed within the natal
group. At 9 months, the marmosets were given a visual discrimination task to
assess learning ability. Mann-Whitney U tests found no sex or family size
differences in number of errors at 3 or 9 months. While no significant
relationships were found between behavior in the family and learning at 3 months,
significant negative correlations were found between duration spent in locomotion
and learning errors (p = .05), as well as between frequency of calm vocalizations
and learning errors (p = .001) at 9 months. A U-shape curve was found between
amount of social play and learning at 9 months. Positive family interactions,
including moderate amounts of play, as well as calm individual behavior, may
therefore be important in learning. This study sheds light on cognitive
development in much younger marmosets than previously studied, and helps increase
understanding of how individual differences in learning may arise.

© 2020 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.23159 
PMCID: PMC7440670
PMID: 32515834  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


309. Reproduction. 2020 Aug;160(2):259-268. doi: 10.1530/REP-20-0100.

A translational cellular model for the study of peritubular cells of the testis.

Schmid N(1), Missel A(1), Petkov S(2)(3), Stöckl JB(4), Flenkenthaler F(4),
Arnold GJ(4), Fröhlich T(4), Behr R(2)(3), Mayerhofer A(1).

Author information: 
(1)LMU München, Biomedical Center (BMC), Anatomy III - Cell Biology, Martinsried,
Germany.
(2)Platform Degenerative Diseases, German Primate Center, Göttingen, Germany.
(3)DZHK (German Center for Cardiovascular Research), Partner Site Göttingen,
Göttingen, Germany.
(4)Laboratory for Functional Genome Analysis LAFUGA, Gene Center, LMU München,
München, Germany.

Testicular peritubular cells (TPCs) are smooth muscle-like cells, which form a
compartment surrounding the seminiferous tubules. Previous studies employing
isolated human testicular peritubular cells (HTPCs) indicated that their roles in
the testis go beyond sperm transport and include paracrine and immunological
contributions. Peritubular cells from a non-human primate (MKTPCs), the common
marmoset monkey, Callithrix jacchus, share a high degree of homology with HTPCs. 
However, like their human counterparts these cells age in vitro and replicative
senescence limits in-depth functional or mechanistic studies. Therefore, a stable
cellular model was established. MKTPCs of a young adult animal were immortalized 
by piggyBac transposition of human telomerase (hTERT), that is, without the
expression of viral oncogenes. Immortalized MKTPCs (iMKTPCs) grew without
discernable changes for more than 50 passages. An initial characterization
revealed typical genes expressed by peritubular cells (androgen receptor (AR),
smooth-muscle actin (ACTA2), calponin (CNN1)). A proteome analysis of the primary
MKTPCs and the derived immortalized cell line confirmed that the cells almost
completely retained their phenotype. To test whether they respond in a similar
way as HTPCs, iMKTPCs were challenged with forskolin (FSK) and ATP. As HTPCs,
they showed increased expression level of the StAR protein (StAR) after FSK
stimulation, indicating steroidogenic capacity. ATP increased the expression of
pro-inflammatory factors (e.g. IL1B; CCL7), as it is the case in HTPCs. Finally, 
we confirmed that iMKTPCs can efficiently be transfected. Therefore, they
represent a highly relevant translational model, which allows mechanistic studies
for further exploration of the roles of testicular peritubular cells.

DOI: 10.1530/REP-20-0100 
PMID: 32449695  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

