

3080. Braz J Med Biol Res. 2002 Apr;35(4):437-44.

The distribution of presumptive thoracic paraganglionic tissue in the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Clarke JA(1), de B Daly M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Royal Free and University College Medical School,
London, UK. f.leitao@rfc.ucl.ac.uk

The aortic-pulmonary regions (APR) of seven adult marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) 
and the region of the right subclavian artery of a further three marmosets were
diffusion-fixed with 10% buffered formol-saline solution. In both regions serial 
5 microm sections were cut and stained by the Martius yellow, brilliant crystal
scarlet and soluble blue method. Presumptive thoracic paraganglionic (PTP) tissue
was only observed in the APR. PTP tissue was composed of small groups of cells
that varied in size and number. The distribution of the groups of cells was
extremely variable, so much so that it would be misleading to attempt to classify
their position; they were not circumscribed by a connective tissue capsule, but
were always related to the thoracic branches of the left vagus nerve. The cells
lay in loose areolar tissue characteristic of this part of the mediastinum and
received their blood supply from small adjacent connective tissue arterioles.
Unlike the paraganglionic tissue found in the carotid body the cells in the
thorax did not appear to have a profuse capillary blood supply. There was,
however, a close cellular-neural relationship. The cells, 10-15 microm in
diameter, were oval or rounded in appearance and possessed a central nucleus and 
clear cytoplasm. No evidence was found that these cells possessed a 'companion'
cell reminiscent of the arrangement of type 1 and type 2 cells in the carotid
body. In conclusion, we found evidence of presumed paraganglionic tissue in the
APR of the marmoset which, however, did not show the characteristic histological 
features of the aortic body chemoreceptors that have been described in some
non-primate mammals. A survey of the mediastina of other non-human primates is
required to establish whether this finding is atypical for these animals.

DOI: 10.1590/s0100-879x2002000400005 
PMID: 11960192  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3081. Exp Toxicol Pathol. 2002 Feb;53(6):413-20.

Experimental hepatitis A virus (HAV) infection in Callithrix jacchus: early
detection of HAV antigen and viral fate.

Pinto MA(1), Marchevsky RS, Baptista ML, de Lima MA, Pelajo-Machado M, Vitral CL,
Kubelka CF, Pissurno JW, Franca MS, Schatzmayr HG, Gaspar AM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Virology, Oswaldo Cruz Foundation, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.

Common marmosets (Callithrixjacchus) were orally inoculated with a Brazilian
strain (HAF-203) of hepatitis A virus (HAy). Three monkeys were euthanized at
postinoculation hours 6, 12 and 24 to investigate the early events of HAV
infection. Following others three inoculated and one control marmosets remained
throughout the 46 day to evaluation of viral excretion. Different samples were
collected to detect sequential presence of HAV RNA by nested reverse
transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) in liver, saliva, bile and
stools at 6 hours to 461h days postinoculation. Liver tissues were examined by
immunofluorescence assay in a confocal laser-scanning microscope for the presence
of HAV antigen. HAV RNA was detected in saliva during the course of the study, in
bile from 24 hours to 46 days. in stools from 7 to 46 days and liver at 12 hours 
postinfection. In immunofluorescence of liver stained preparations, viral antigen
was present at six hours after inoculation throughout the remainder of the 46-day
study. The animals developed histological and biochemical acute hepatitis after
second week postinoculation. Spleen, duodenum, and mesenteric lymph nodes
specimens were negative for HAV antigens. This study supports the possibility
that in Callithrixjacchus orally inoculated with hepatitis A virus the saliva
route may be additional way of viral elimination. The viral replication in the
liver was responsible for biliary HAV presence and latter HAV detection in fecal 
samples.

DOI: 10.1078/0940-2993-00212 
PMID: 11930901  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

