

3088. Res Microbiol. 2002 Jan-Feb;153(1):45-52.

Bacteriocin production by Actinobacillus actinomycetemcomitans isolated from the 
oral cavity of humans with periodontal disease, periodontally healthy subjects
and marmosets.

Lúcia LF(1), Farias FF, Eustáquio CJ, Auxiliadora M, Carvalho R, Alviano CS,
Farias LM.

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Microbiologia Prof Paulo de Góes, Centro de Ciências da Saúde,
Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro, Cidade Universitária, Rio de Janeiro,
Brazil.

The ability of Actinobacillus actinomycetemcomitans to produce bacteriocin has
rarely been reported. Antagonistic substance production may confer an important
ecological advantage for the producer microorganisms, especially in a competitive
ecosystem such as the oral cavity. In the present study, 75 A.
actinomycetemcomitans strains isolated from the oral cavity of human patients
with periodontal disease, periodontally healthy subjects and marmosets, as well
as two reference strains (A. actinomycetemcomitans ATCC 29523 and FDC Y4) were
evaluated for auto-, iso-, and heteroantagonistic activity. Fifty-one (68.00%)
strains exhibited antagonistic activity; heteroantagonism was observed more often
than isoantagonism. Isolated strains antagonized 17 different species of
gram-positive and gram-negative bacteria from the oral and nonoral microbiota.
Sensitivity to heat and to proteolytic enzymes constituted strong evidence that
the antagonistic substance has a proteic nature. Taken together, our data enabled
us to confirm that the antagonistic substance detected was a bacteriocin. The
wide spectrum of activity indicates the possibility that more than one
antagonistic substance is produced and that these substances play an important
role in the ecological balance of the oral ecosystem.

DOI: 10.1016/s0923-2508(01)01285-2 
PMID: 11881898  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3089. Eur J Neurosci. 2002 Feb;15(3):507-16.

Crossed unilateral lesions of temporal lobe structures and cholinergic cell
bodies impair visual conditional and object discrimination learning in monkeys.

Barefoot HC(1), Baker HF, Ridley RM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, Downing Street, Cambridge CB2 3EB, UK.

Monkeys with excitotoxic lesions of the CA1/subiculum region in the right
hemisphere and with immunotoxic lesions of the cholinergic cells of the diagonal 
band in the left hemisphere were impaired on a visual conditional task. In this
task, correct choice of one of two objects depends on which of two background
fields both objects are presented against, irrespective of the spatial positions 
of the objects. They were not impaired on simple object or shape discrimination
tasks. The pattern of impairments is the same as that seen after bilateral
excitotoxic lesions of CA1/subiculum, implying that the diagonal band lesion
disables the ipsilateral CA1/subiculum. It also argues that CA1/subiculum,
sustained by its cholinergic input, is necessary for some forms of nonspatial
conditional learning. Addition of an inferotemporal (IT) cortical ablation to the
left hemisphere did not affect simple visual discrimination learning, although
all the monkeys then failed to learn a new visual conditional task. This
demonstrates that intact IT cortex in only one hemisphere is sufficient to
sustain simple visual discrimination learning but implies that the cholinergic
input and the inferotemporal cortical input to the hippocampus both contribute to
visual conditional learning. The subsequent addition of an immunotoxic lesion of 
the basal nucleus of Meynert in the right hemisphere resulted in an additional
impairment on a difficult shape discrimination. This argues that it is the
cholinergic projection to the inferotemporal cortex, rather than to the rest of
the cortex, which contributes to visual discrimination learning and memory.

DOI: 10.1046/j.0953-816x.2001.01888.x 
PMID: 11876778  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

