

3089. Eur J Neurosci. 2002 Feb;15(3):507-16.

Crossed unilateral lesions of temporal lobe structures and cholinergic cell
bodies impair visual conditional and object discrimination learning in monkeys.

Barefoot HC(1), Baker HF, Ridley RM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, Downing Street, Cambridge CB2 3EB, UK.

Monkeys with excitotoxic lesions of the CA1/subiculum region in the right
hemisphere and with immunotoxic lesions of the cholinergic cells of the diagonal 
band in the left hemisphere were impaired on a visual conditional task. In this
task, correct choice of one of two objects depends on which of two background
fields both objects are presented against, irrespective of the spatial positions 
of the objects. They were not impaired on simple object or shape discrimination
tasks. The pattern of impairments is the same as that seen after bilateral
excitotoxic lesions of CA1/subiculum, implying that the diagonal band lesion
disables the ipsilateral CA1/subiculum. It also argues that CA1/subiculum,
sustained by its cholinergic input, is necessary for some forms of nonspatial
conditional learning. Addition of an inferotemporal (IT) cortical ablation to the
left hemisphere did not affect simple visual discrimination learning, although
all the monkeys then failed to learn a new visual conditional task. This
demonstrates that intact IT cortex in only one hemisphere is sufficient to
sustain simple visual discrimination learning but implies that the cholinergic
input and the inferotemporal cortical input to the hippocampus both contribute to
visual conditional learning. The subsequent addition of an immunotoxic lesion of 
the basal nucleus of Meynert in the right hemisphere resulted in an additional
impairment on a difficult shape discrimination. This argues that it is the
cholinergic projection to the inferotemporal cortex, rather than to the rest of
the cortex, which contributes to visual discrimination learning and memory.

DOI: 10.1046/j.0953-816x.2001.01888.x 
PMID: 11876778  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3090. Biol Reprod. 2002 Mar;66(3):802-12.

Hemochorial placentation in the primate: expression of vascular endothelial
growth factor, angiopoietins, and their receptors throughout pregnancy.

Wulff C(1), Wilson H, Dickson SE, Wiegand SJ, Fraser HM.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council, Human Reproductive Sciences Unit, Edinburgh EH3 9ET,
United Kingdom. christine-wulff@onlinehome.de

Vascular development and its transformation are necessary for successful
hemochorial placentation, and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF),
angiopoietins, and their receptors may be involved in the molecular regulation of
this process. To determine the potential role of these putative regulators in a
widely studied primate, the common marmoset, we investigated their mRNA
expression and protein location in the placenta throughout pregnancy using in
situ hybridization, Northern blot analysis, and immunocytochemistry. VEGF was
localized in decidual and cytotrophoblast cells, and its highest expression was
found in the maternal decidua. The Flt receptor was exclusively detected in the
syncytial trophoblast with increasing expression in placentae from 10 wk to term.
Soluble Flt (sFlt) was also detectable by Northern blot analysis. KDR receptor
expression was restricted to mesenchymal cells during early placentation and to
the fetoplacental vasculature during later placentation. KDR expression increased
throughout pregnancy. Angiopoietin-1 (Ang-1) was localized in the syncytial
trophoblast, being highly expressed in the second half of gestation. Ang-2 mRNA
localized exclusively to maternal endothelial cells, and was highly expressed in 
10-wk placentae. The Tie-2 receptor was found in cytotrophoblast cells and in
fetal and maternal vessels. High Tie-2 levels were detected in the wall of
chorion vessels at 14-wk, 17-wk, and term placentae. These results suggest that
the processes of trophoblast invasion, maternal vascular transformation, and
fetoplacental vascular differentiation and development are regulated by the
specific actions of angiogenic ligand-receptor pairs. Specifically, 1) VEGF/Flt
and Ang-1/Tie-2 may promote trophoblast growth, 2) VEGF/KDR and Ang-1/Tie-2 may
support fetoplacental vascular development and stabilization, 3) sFlt may balance
VEGF actions, and 4) Ang-2/Tie-2 may remodel the maternal vasculature.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod66.3.802 
PMID: 11870089  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

