

3094. Oncogene. 2002 Jan 24;21(5):825-35.

Hypothesis: a novel route for immortalization of epithelial cells by Epstein-Barr
virus.

Gao Y(1), Lu YJ, Xue SA, Chen H, Wedderburn N, Griffin BE.

Author information: 
(1)Viral Oncology Unit, Department of Medicine, Imperial College of Science,
Technology and Medicine, Norfolk Place, London W2 1PG, UK.

Transfection of primate tissue explants with a specific sub-fragment (p31) of EBV
DNA results in epithelial (but no other) cells proliferating indefinitely
(becoming 'immortalized') without evidence of a 'growth crisis'. Molecular
evidence supports integration of viral information into the host chromosome, and 
an early genotypic alteration involving specific amplification of a sub-component
(IR1) of p31 DNA, followed by apparent loss of viral DNA from chromosomes,
consistent with a 'hit and run' mechanism. However, analysis at the individual
cell level during long-term culture, by FISH techniques, reveals chromosomal
alterations, and viral sequences surviving within double minute (DM) bodies.
Changing growth patterns occurring at different stages during propagation (>a
year in culture) may be explained by sporadic reintegration of surviving viral
DNA into the host chromosome. Notably, throughout culture, telomere lengths in
chromosomal DNAs do not alter but rather retain the length observed in the
primary cell populations. Introduction of a growth stimulating function of EBV,
BARF1, into the immortalized, non-clonable epithelial cells under conditions
which permit overexpression, allows clonal populations to be derived. Based on
the data, mechanisms of immortalization, in the absence of a proven viral
oncogene in p31 DNA, and possible genes involved, are considered.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.onc.1205130 
PMID: 11850810  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3095. Acta Neuropathol. 2002 Jan;103(1):48-58.

Amyloid-beta deposits in the cerebral cortex of the aged common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus): incidence and chemical composition.

Geula C(1), Nagykery N, Wu CK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Harvard Medical School and Beth Israel Deaconess
Medical Center, Boston, MA 02215, USA. cgeula@caregroup.harvard.edu

The incidence, distribution and chemical composition of amyloid-beta (A beta)
peptide-positive deposits were investigated in the lower primate species common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). No A beta deposits were observed in the brains of 
7 marmosets below 7 years of age. In 15 marmosets above 7 years, 60% displayed
cortical A beta-immunoreactive plaques, 80% had A beta deposited in intracortical
vessels and 87% displayed A beta deposits in meningeal vessels. The cerebral
cortex of the oldest animal (15 years) contained a substantial density of
deposits. A beta-immunoreactive plaques were found predominantly in association
cortical zones followed by a lower density in paralimbic cortical areas. Deposits
within vessels were most frequent in occipital cortex. A beta40 was found
primarily in vascular deposits, while A beta42 was present in plaques.
Approximately 20% of plaques and most vascular deposits displayed thioflavin S
staining, indicative of the presence of fibrillar A beta. Varying proportions of 
A beta deposits contained acetylcholinesterase or butyrylcholinesterase
activities and apolipoprotein E and alpha1-antichymotrypsin immunoreactivity. A
few plaques contained immunoreactivity for amyloid precursor protein in swollen
neurites. However, no abnormally phosphorylated tau immunoreactivity was present 
in these neurites. Survival analysis in a colony of marmosets indicated that only
6% of animals can be expected to survive beyond 7 years of age. These results
indicate that the aged marmoset brain displays A beta deposits with a
distribution and chemical composition similar to those found in the human. These 
similarities suggest that the aged marmoset may be a useful lower primate model
for the study of the pathological effects of A beta. However, the relatively
small number of animals which can be expected to reach old age severely limits
the utility of this species as a model of A beta deposition.

DOI: 10.1007/s004010100429 
PMID: 11837747  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

