

3096. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2002 Feb;87(2):691-9.

Development of pituitary-adrenal endocrine function in the marmoset monkey:
infant hypercortisolism is the norm.

Pryce CR(1), Palme R, Feldon J.

Author information: 
(1)Behavioural Neurobiology Laboratory, Swiss Federal Institute of Technology
Zurich, CH-8603 Schwerzenbach, Switzerland. pryce@toxi.biol.ethz.ch

Early life stress, involving activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal
(HPA) system, is associated with altered functioning of stress-related systems in
adulthood. In the rat, postnatal development is characterized by low basal HPA
activity and stress hyporesponsiveness, and infant exposure to atypical
glucocorticoid levels leads to chronic alteration of HPA function and
HPA-dependent peripheral and central processes. There have been few studies of
primate HPA ontogeny, and here we report a study of changes in pituitary-adrenal 
function between birth and adulthood in the common marmoset monkey. In this
simian primate, basal plasma ACTH and cortisol levels were actually elevated in
neonates (ACTH, 141 +/- 28 pg/ml; cortisol, 1903 +/- 326 microg/dl) and wk 4
infants (ACTH, 114 +/- 9 pg/ml; cortisol, 290 +/- 8 microg/dl) relative to month 
2 infants, juveniles (month 6), subadults (month 12), and adults (>2 yr; ACTH, 37
+/- 4 to 61 +/- 8 pg/ml; cortisol, 101 +/- 2 to 195 +/- 4 microg/dl). In contrast
to older life stages, neonates lacked circadian change in their plasma cortisol
levels, and this state of consistently high cortisol was associated with large
adrenal glands in addition to high ACTH levels. Cerebrospinal fluid cortisol
levels were, in accord with plasma levels, higher in wk 4 infants than in
juveniles and subadults. In terms of stress response, month 2 infants
demonstrated ACTH and cortisol peak stress responses similar to those at older
life stages (infant stress cortisol, 185 +/- 36% of basal; subadult stress
cortisol, 174 +/- 6% of basal); whereas infant ACTH recovery was also similar to 
that in older subjects, their cortisol poststress recovery was retarded. This
primate, it is proposed, provides an excellent complementary model in which to
test hypotheses derived from the rat model relating to HPA system ontogeny and
the chronic effects and biomedical implications of hypercorticoidism during early
life.

DOI: 10.1210/jcem.87.2.8244 
PMID: 11836307  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3097. Mov Disord. 2002 Jan;17(1):13-9.

Neuroprotective effect of riluzole in a primate model of Parkinson's disease:
behavioral and histological evidence.

Obinu MC(1), Reibaud M, Blanchard V, Moussaoui S, Imperato A.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Program, Research Center of Paris, Aventis Pharma,
S.A. Vitry sur Seine, France. Marie-Carmen.Obinu@aventis.com

Our study aimed to determine whether riluzole, which has shown efficacy as a
disease-modifying agent in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), is
neuroprotective in a marmoset model of Parkinson's disease (PD). Reduction of
energy demand by riluzole could be a rational neuroprotective strategy with good 
tolerability. The efficacy of riluzole was evaluated in marmosets by testing its 
ability to reduce MPTP-induced behavioral deficits and loss of dopaminergic
nigral neurons. Marmosets were divided into two groups of four animals each:
animals in Group 1 were injected twice with MPTP (2 mg/kg subcutaneous) and
treated with riluzole (10 mg/kg per os b.i.d.), animals in Group 2 (controls)
were injected with MPTP and with the vehicle of riluzole. A third group of
marmosets which did not receive MPTP or riluzole drug was introduced for
neurohistopathological studies (normal animals). Marmosets treated with riluzole 
preserved a better motor function and neurological performance through the 26
days of assessment when compared with the controls. Histologically, there was
sparing of TH- and Nissl-stained nigral neurons and of TH-stained terminals in
the striatum and the putamen in the group treated with riluzole compared to the
controls. We conclude that riluzole protects dopaminergic neurons and reduces
behavioral deficits in a marmoset model of PD.

Copyright 2001 Movement Disorder Society.

DOI: 10.1002/mds.1272 
PMID: 11835434  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

