

3099. Brain Res. 2002 Feb 15;927(2):200-3.

Differential distribution of afferents containing serotonin and neuropeptide Y
within the marmoset suprachiasmatic nucleus.

Cavalcante JS(1), Alves AS, Costa MS, Britto LR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Biophysics, Institute of Biomedical Sciences,
University of São Paulo, Av. Prof. Lineu Prestes 1524, 05508-900, São Paulo, SP, 
Brazil.

Neuropeptide Y-containing fibers/terminals were immunohistochemically detected in
the ventral portion of the marmoset suprachiasmatic nucleus, approximately
matching the distribution of its retinal afferents. On the other hand,
serotonergic fibers/terminals were found mostly in central and dorsal areas of
the suprachiasmatic nucleus, almost completely sparing its ventral portion. These
data may represent a morphological substrate for differential actions of
serotonin and neuropeptide Y in the control of circadian rhythmicity in
marmosets.

DOI: 10.1016/s0006-8993(01)03312-1 
PMID: 11821013  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3100. Bull Group Int Rech Sci Stomatol Odontol. 1999 Jan-Mar;41(1):2-13.

The ultrastructure of the intra-articular disc of the temporomandibular joint,
with special reference to fibrocartilage.

Berkovitz BK(1), Pacy J.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Anatomy, Cell and Human Biology, GKT School of Biomedical
Sciences, Strand Campus, Strand, London WC2R 2LS, England.
Barry.Berkovitz@kcl.ac.uk

Cells in the intra-articular disc of the temporomandibular joint of the rat,
guinea pig, rabbit, ferret, marmoset and sheep were studied at the
ultrastructural level. The cells were generally rounded in outline and possessed 
moderate amounts of roughened endoplasmic reticulum and other organelles
associated with protein synthesis and secretion. No intracellular collagen
profiles were observed. Many of the cells possessed conspicuous amounts of
microfilamentous material. Cell membranes in the rat, guinea pig, rabbit, ferret 
and sheep were closely applied to the collagen fibrils of the extracellular
matrix. Occasionally in these animals, a narrow, irregular space containing
microfilamentous material surrounded the cell membrane. Many cells in the
marmoset differed from this description in being completely surrounded by an
obvious pericellular matrix devoid of collagen fibrils and being comprised of
microfilamentous material embedded in an amorphous ground substance. These
chondrocyte-like cells in the intra-articular disc of the marmoset differed from 
chondrocytes in hyaline cartilage by lacking a pericellular capsule.


PMID: 11799762  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

