

3100. Bull Group Int Rech Sci Stomatol Odontol. 1999 Jan-Mar;41(1):2-13.

The ultrastructure of the intra-articular disc of the temporomandibular joint,
with special reference to fibrocartilage.

Berkovitz BK(1), Pacy J.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Anatomy, Cell and Human Biology, GKT School of Biomedical
Sciences, Strand Campus, Strand, London WC2R 2LS, England.
Barry.Berkovitz@kcl.ac.uk

Cells in the intra-articular disc of the temporomandibular joint of the rat,
guinea pig, rabbit, ferret, marmoset and sheep were studied at the
ultrastructural level. The cells were generally rounded in outline and possessed 
moderate amounts of roughened endoplasmic reticulum and other organelles
associated with protein synthesis and secretion. No intracellular collagen
profiles were observed. Many of the cells possessed conspicuous amounts of
microfilamentous material. Cell membranes in the rat, guinea pig, rabbit, ferret 
and sheep were closely applied to the collagen fibrils of the extracellular
matrix. Occasionally in these animals, a narrow, irregular space containing
microfilamentous material surrounded the cell membrane. Many cells in the
marmoset differed from this description in being completely surrounded by an
obvious pericellular matrix devoid of collagen fibrils and being comprised of
microfilamentous material embedded in an amorphous ground substance. These
chondrocyte-like cells in the intra-articular disc of the marmoset differed from 
chondrocytes in hyaline cartilage by lacking a pericellular capsule.


PMID: 11799762  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3101. Zhonghua Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2001 Apr 25;81(8):465-7.

[Horizontal transmission of live attenuated hepatitis A vaccine virus].

[Article in Chinese]

Huang X(1), Cao Y, Tan S.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Medical Biology, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and Peking
Union Medical College, Kunming 650118, China.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the horizontal transmission of virus after inoculation 
with live attenuated hepatitis A vaccine.
METHODS: One hundred and ninety nine children aged 4 approximately 7 years
without anti-HAV and with normal ALT level have been screened out at two trial
fields in Anning, Kunming and divided into vaccine group (82 children) and
contact group (117 children) to observe the horizontal transmission of the live
attenuated hepatitis A vaccine virus (H2 strain). Four supernatant specimens of
HAV positive fecal suspension derived from individual vaccines and contacts were 
taken and injected intravenousely into 8 common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) for
detecting the virulence level of HAV.
RESULTS: The rates of seroconversion were 97.6% (80/82) for vaccine group 6 weeks
after inoculation and 13.7% (16/117) for contact group at the ninth week of
observation. The detection rates of fecal HAV were 89.5% (34/38) and 70.7%
(53/75), respectively. No liver functional abnormality has been found in either
groups. The responses of 8 marmosets separately infected with fecal shedding HAV 
of 2 vaccines and 2 contacts have been examined with neither elevations of serum 
liver enzyme nor liver histopathological changes but delay seroconversions as
well as low titers of anti-HAV.
CONCLUSION: The safety and immunogenicity live attenuated hepatitis A vaccine (H2
strain) were good. The vaccine virus could actively propagate but keep the
stability of attenuated characteristics in human bodies, and might result in
horizontal transmission but not induce hepatitis A in crowd.


PMID: 11798919  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

