

3103. Am J Primatol. 2002 Jan;56(1):27-42.

Variation in circulating and excreted estradiol associated with testicular
activity in male marmosets.

Nunes S(1), Brown C, French JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska-Omaha, Nebraska, Omaha
68182-0274, USA.

Concentrations of estradiol (E2) are high in the urine of male marmosets, and
links between E2 and paternal behavior have been proposed in black tufted-ear
marmosets, Callithrix kuhlii. However, it is not clear whether urinary E2 in male
marmosets: 1) represents production of E2 associated with testicular activity, 2)
is associated with adrenal steroid production, or 3) merely reflects peripheral
conversion of T to E2 prior to excretion. We tested the hypothesis that urinary
E2 in male marmosets represents estrogen production-associated activity in the
hypothalamus-pituitary-gonad (HPG) axis. We treated adult male marmosets with
gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH), and used saline-treated males as controls.
We collected blood and urine samples from males before and after treatment, and
assayed them for testosterone (T), estradiol (E2), and cortisol (CORT). Treatment
with GnRH increased circulating T and E2, and prevented decreases in levels of
urinary T and E2. Moreover, changes in plasma and urinary E2 after treatment were
positively correlated with post-treatment changes in T. Thus, our data are
consistent with both plasma and urinary E2 in male marmosets increasing as a
result of testicular stimulation. However, treatment with GnRH did not affect
plasma or urinary CORT concentrations of males, suggesting that the E2 excreted
by males is not of adrenal origin. We also compared urinary T, E2, and CORT
levels between intact and castrated male common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).
Urinary concentrations of T and E2, but not CORT, were significantly lower in
castrated than in intact males, further suggesting that E2 in male marmosets
varies with testicular activity.

Copyright 2002 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.1061 
PMID: 11793411  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3104. J Comp Neurol. 2002 Feb 4;443(2):168-82.

Cortical and thalamic connections of the parietal ventral somatosensory area in
marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus).

Qi HX(1), Lyon DC, Kaas JH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tennessee 37203,
USA.

Microelectrode mapping methods were used to define the parietal ventral
somatosensory area (PV) on the upper bank of the lateral sulcus in five marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus). In the same animals, neuroanatomical tracers were placed
into electrophysiologically identified sites in PV and/or the second
somatosensory area (S2). Foci of anterograde and retrograde label were related to
electrophysiological maps of cortical areas and cortical and thalamic
architecture. The results lead to the following conclusions: (1) Multiunit
recordings from cortex on the upper bank of the lateral sulcus demonstrate that
PV is somatotopically organized, with the face representation adjoining area 3b
and the hindlimb and tail representations away from this border in cortex deep on
the upper bank of the lateral sulcus. The forelimb representation is caudal in PV
adjacent to the S2 forelimb representation. The body surface representation in PV
approximates a mirror image of that in S2; (2) Areas PV and S2 are less
myelinated and have less cytochrome oxidase enzyme activity than area 3b; (3) The
ventroposterior inferior nucleus (VPI) of the thalamus provides the major
somatosensory projections to PV. PV is reciprocally connected with VPI and
anterior pulvinar; (4) PV has ipsilateral cortical connections with areas 3a, 3b,
1, and M1 and higher order somatosensory fields, and at least most of these
connections are somatotopically matched; and (5) Callosal connections of PV are
with S2 and PV of the other cerebral hemisphere. These results further establish 
PV as one of at least four somatosensory areas of the lateral sulcus of primates.

Copyright 2002 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.10113 
PMID: 11793354  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

