

3104. J Comp Neurol. 2002 Feb 4;443(2):168-82.

Cortical and thalamic connections of the parietal ventral somatosensory area in
marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus).

Qi HX(1), Lyon DC, Kaas JH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tennessee 37203,
USA.

Microelectrode mapping methods were used to define the parietal ventral
somatosensory area (PV) on the upper bank of the lateral sulcus in five marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus). In the same animals, neuroanatomical tracers were placed
into electrophysiologically identified sites in PV and/or the second
somatosensory area (S2). Foci of anterograde and retrograde label were related to
electrophysiological maps of cortical areas and cortical and thalamic
architecture. The results lead to the following conclusions: (1) Multiunit
recordings from cortex on the upper bank of the lateral sulcus demonstrate that
PV is somatotopically organized, with the face representation adjoining area 3b
and the hindlimb and tail representations away from this border in cortex deep on
the upper bank of the lateral sulcus. The forelimb representation is caudal in PV
adjacent to the S2 forelimb representation. The body surface representation in PV
approximates a mirror image of that in S2; (2) Areas PV and S2 are less
myelinated and have less cytochrome oxidase enzyme activity than area 3b; (3) The
ventroposterior inferior nucleus (VPI) of the thalamus provides the major
somatosensory projections to PV. PV is reciprocally connected with VPI and
anterior pulvinar; (4) PV has ipsilateral cortical connections with areas 3a, 3b,
1, and M1 and higher order somatosensory fields, and at least most of these
connections are somatotopically matched; and (5) Callosal connections of PV are
with S2 and PV of the other cerebral hemisphere. These results further establish 
PV as one of at least four somatosensory areas of the lateral sulcus of primates.

Copyright 2002 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.10113 
PMID: 11793354  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3105. J Endocrinol. 2002 Jan;172(1):21-30.

Development and validation of a new monoclonal antibody to mammalian aromatase.

Turner KJ(1), Macpherson S, Millar MR, McNeilly AS, Williams K, Cranfield M,
Groome NP, Sharpe RM, Fraser HM, Saunders PT.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Human Reproductive Sciences Unit, 37 Chalmers Street, Edinburgh EH3 9ET,
UK.

The biosynthesis of oestrogens from androgens is catalysed by the aromatase
complex, an essential component of which is the aromatase cytochrome P450 (P450
arom) protein. Expression of a functional P450 arom is essential for normal
fertility in males and females and the sequence of the protein is highly
conserved. We have raised a new monoclonal antibody against a conserved peptide
and validated it on fixed tissue sections of the rat, common marmoset (Callthrix 
jacchus) and human. The monoclonal antibody was used successfully for Western
analysis and specifically reacted with a 55 kDa protein in microsomal extracts.
On sections of ovaries in all three species, expression in follicles was specific
to the mural granulosa cells of antral follicles and was present in corpora
lutea. In the human and marmoset, staining of luteal cells was markedly
heterogeneous and did not appear to vary consistently with the stage of the
cycle. The intensity of immunostaining was elevated in corpora lutea from
pregnant rats and following human chorionic gonadotropin rescue in the human. In 
the testis, the highest levels of expression were observed in the Leydig cells
within the interstitium. In adult rat and marmoset, and possibly also in the
human, some P450 arom was associated with the cytoplasm surrounding elongate
spermatids but other germ cells were immunonegative. In conclusion, a new
monoclonal antibody specific for P450 arom recognises the protein in rodent,
primate and human. Its ability to work on fixed tissue sections will facilitate
identification of individual cells expressing P450 arom within complex tissues.

DOI: 10.1677/joe.0.1720021 
PMID: 11786371  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

