

3116. Cereb Cortex. 2002 Feb;12(2):199-211.

Vascularization in the primate visual cortex during development.

Fonta C(1), Imbert M.

Author information: 
(1)Centre de Recherche Cerveau et Cognition, UMR 5549 Centre National de la
Recherche Scientifique/Université Paul Sabatier, Faculté de Médecine Rangueil,
133 route de Narbonne, 31062 Toulouse cedex, France. fonta@cerco.ups-tlse.fr

We studied the relationship between vascularization and neuronal activity in the 
visual cortex during postnatal development in the primate. Analyses were focused 
on layer IVC that displays a sequential pattern of maturation for the magno- and 
parvocellular systems in separate sublayers, respectively IVC alpha and IVC beta.
Cytochrome oxidase and endogenous alkaline phosphatase histochemistry was used to
analyse, on the same sections, the laminar patterns of cortical activity and
vessel density in the primary visual cortex of the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).
Experiments were carried out in five young and two adult animals. We showed that 
the temporal pattern of angiogenesis differs in layer IVC alpha and IVC beta.
During the first postnatal month, vessel density is higher in IVC alpha than in
IVC beta and runs parallel to cytochrome oxidase intensity. In 2-month-old
animals, both vessel densities and cytochrome oxidase activity are similar in IVC
alpha and IVC beta. In adults, the vessel densities in IVC alpha and IVC beta are
the reverse of those observed during the first postnatal month. Vessel diameter
does not account for this evolution in vascular patterns. In the discussion, we
suggest that such a developmental time-course of angiogenesis might be linked to 
the synaptogenesis requirements that proceed differently for the magno- and
parvocellular systems in the primate striate cortex.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/12.2.199 
PMID: 11739267  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3117. Clin Neurophysiol. 2001 Dec;112(12):2265-73.

Investigation of the sleep electrocorticogram of the common marmoset (Callithrix 
jacchus) using radiotelemetry.

Crofts HS(1), Wilson S, Muggleton NG, Nutt DJ, Scott EA, Pearce PC.

Author information: 
(1)Psychopharmacology Unit, School of Medical Sciences, University Walk,
University of Bristol, BS8 1TD, Bristol, UK. hc233@hermes.cam.ac.uk

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the use of a totally implantable radiotelemetry system for
recording the sleep electrocorticogram (ECoG) of a small new world primate, the
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) without restraint during data collection.
METHODS: Under anaesthesia a telemetry transmitter, which allowed the recording
of a single ECoG channel, was implanted intraperitoneally. This system allowed
ECoG data to be recorded overnight from animals living in pairs within their
habitual laboratory environment over a period of 12 months. Data were
subsequently scored using modified Rechtschaffen and Kales criteria (A manual of 
standardized terminology, techniques and scoring system for sleep stages of human
subjects. Los Angeles, UCLA Brain Information Service/Brain Research Institute,
1968) into stages of waking, light sleep, deep sleep and probable rapid eye
movement sleep (pREM). Concurrent video recording was used to assist in the
categorising of pREM.
RESULTS: Results showed that, as in man, the marmoset exhibits sleep cycles with 
stages alternating between non-REM (deep sleep and light sleep) and pREM sleep
throughout the night. In common with other non-human primates the duration of
each of the sleep stages was relatively short and punctuated with frequent
waking.
CONCLUSIONS: These data suggest that sleep in marmosets housed under laboratory
conditions (a) can be recorded without restraint and (b) has potential to be used
as a model for human sleep.

DOI: 10.1016/s1388-2457(01)00699-x 
PMID: 11738198  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

