

3118. Neuroscience. 2001;107(2):239-48.

Non-spatial acquisition and retention deficits following small excitotoxic
lesions within the hippocampus in monkeys.

Ridley RM(1), Hardy A, Maclean CJ, Baker HF.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Comparative Cognition team, Department of Experimental Psychology, Downing
Street, Cambridge CB2 3EB, UK.

Marmoset monkeys with excitotoxic lesions confined to cornu ammonis subfields
1-3, subiculum and pre-subiculum, but sparing the entorhinal cortex, were
impaired on retention and learning of conditional object-choice discriminations. 
For each of these discriminations, the monkeys were required to choose one of two
objects depending on which of two patterned backgrounds was used on each trial.
Two styles of order of trial presentation were used: 'random' presentation which 
maximised the degree of interference between trials, and 'runs' presentation
which was intended to encourage the monkeys to learn each component of the
discrimination separately. Before surgery monkeys found the discriminations more 
difficult to learn when the trials were presented in the 'runs' style than when
presented in the 'random' style suggesting that the task is best learnt by
applying a conditional rule. After surgery a significant 'group x style'
interaction indicated that the 'runs' style was especially difficult for the
lesioned monkeys. From these results we suggest that the hippocampus is involved 
in learning about and remembering non-spatial, conditional relations between
objects.

DOI: 10.1016/s0306-4522(01)00358-x 
PMID: 11731098  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3119. J Reprod Immunol. 2002 Jan;53(1-2):99-107.

The contraceptive potential of ZP3 and ZP3 peptides in a primate model.

Paterson M(1), Jennings ZA, Wilson MR, Aitken RJ.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Human Reproductive Sciences Unit, Centre for Reproductive Biology, 37,
Chalmers Street, Edinburgh, EH3 9ET, UK. m.paterson@hrsu.mrc.ac.uk

It has been known for some time that antibodies raised against ZP3, the major
component of the glycoprotein shell that surrounds all mammalian oocytes, can
successfully inhibit sperm-egg interaction in vitro. In our own studies using the
non-human primate Callithrix jacchus, active immunisation was successfully
achieved when homologous or heterologous ZP3 was used as an immunogen. However
this long-term suppression of fertility was at the expense of ovarian function.
An ovarian pathology was observed which was characterised by a disruption of
folliculogenesis and depletion of the primordial follicle pool. Adverse
auto-immune reactions have also been observed in mice following induction of
immunity to mouse ZP3. Following careful selection of B-cell epitopes on mouse
ZP3, peptide vaccines were formulated which could circumvent these adverse side
effects and induce reversible infertility in actively immunised mice. To identify
similar epitopes on primate ZP3, epitope mapping studies were performed and
several candidate regions of the molecule were identified. These were
incorporated into chimeric peptide vaccines and administered as single or triple 
peptide vaccines. Active immunisation successfully induced antibodies that bound 
exclusively to the zona pellucida of marmoset and human ovarian sections. These
antibodies were able to suppress human sperm-egg binding by up to 60% in vitro.
Encouragingly, no adverse side effects on ovarian function were observed
following long-term immunisation however, no loss of fertility was consistently
observed in vivo. Thus considerable research is still required to identify a
combination of ZP epitopes that will induce reversible infertility in the absence
of any ovarian dysfunction.

DOI: 10.1016/s0165-0378(01)00105-x 
PMID: 11730908  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

