

3119. J Reprod Immunol. 2002 Jan;53(1-2):99-107.

The contraceptive potential of ZP3 and ZP3 peptides in a primate model.

Paterson M(1), Jennings ZA, Wilson MR, Aitken RJ.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Human Reproductive Sciences Unit, Centre for Reproductive Biology, 37,
Chalmers Street, Edinburgh, EH3 9ET, UK. m.paterson@hrsu.mrc.ac.uk

It has been known for some time that antibodies raised against ZP3, the major
component of the glycoprotein shell that surrounds all mammalian oocytes, can
successfully inhibit sperm-egg interaction in vitro. In our own studies using the
non-human primate Callithrix jacchus, active immunisation was successfully
achieved when homologous or heterologous ZP3 was used as an immunogen. However
this long-term suppression of fertility was at the expense of ovarian function.
An ovarian pathology was observed which was characterised by a disruption of
folliculogenesis and depletion of the primordial follicle pool. Adverse
auto-immune reactions have also been observed in mice following induction of
immunity to mouse ZP3. Following careful selection of B-cell epitopes on mouse
ZP3, peptide vaccines were formulated which could circumvent these adverse side
effects and induce reversible infertility in actively immunised mice. To identify
similar epitopes on primate ZP3, epitope mapping studies were performed and
several candidate regions of the molecule were identified. These were
incorporated into chimeric peptide vaccines and administered as single or triple 
peptide vaccines. Active immunisation successfully induced antibodies that bound 
exclusively to the zona pellucida of marmoset and human ovarian sections. These
antibodies were able to suppress human sperm-egg binding by up to 60% in vitro.
Encouragingly, no adverse side effects on ovarian function were observed
following long-term immunisation however, no loss of fertility was consistently
observed in vivo. Thus considerable research is still required to identify a
combination of ZP epitopes that will induce reversible infertility in the absence
of any ovarian dysfunction.

DOI: 10.1016/s0165-0378(01)00105-x 
PMID: 11730908  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3120. Mol Hum Reprod. 2001 Dec;7(12):1159-65.

Expression and localization of thioredoxin during early implantation in the
marmoset monkey.

Lopata A(1), Sibson MC, Enders AC, Bloomfield KL, Gregory MS, Trapani GD, Perkins
AV, Tonissen KF, Clarke FM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, University of Melbourne, Royal
Women's Hospital, Carlton, Victoria 3053, Australia.

Thioredoxin is a powerful redox protein expressed in invasive cytotrophoblasts
and essential for blastocyst implantation in mice. Isolated marmoset thioredoxin 
cDNA showed that the deduced amino acid sequence differed from the human sequence
by four amino acids. The close homology of thioredoxin in the two species enabled
us to use monoclonal antibodies against human thioredoxin to detect marmoset
thioredoxin in implantation sites, blastocysts and culture medium.
Immunocytochemistry on marmoset implantation sites, on pregnancy days 12 and 15, 
showed that thioredoxin is highly expressed in uterine luminal epithelium, glands
and in some endometrial stromal cells. In attached blastocysts, thioredoxin
staining was detected in mural and polar trophoblast cells and both visceral and 
parietal endoderm, whereas no staining was present in the inner cell mass. A
similar pattern of thioredoxin expression was detected in hatched blastocysts
attached to Matrigel in tissue culture. Trophoblastic vesicles derived from
blastocysts expressed thioredoxin in inner endoderm-like cells and outer
trophoblast-like cells and secreted thioredoxin into the culture medium. These
experiments have demonstrated thioredoxin expression during early stages of
embryo-maternal interaction. We propose that thioredoxin protects the early
placenta from oxidative damage and that the marmoset is a valuable model for
studying thioredoxin regulation and function during implantation and blastocyst
differentiation.

DOI: 10.1093/molehr/7.12.1159 
PMID: 11719593  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

