

312. Behav Processes. 2020 Jul;176:104136. doi: 10.1016/j.beproc.2020.104136. Epub
2020 May 11.

Common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) cannot recognize global configurations of
sound patterns but can recognize adjacent relations of sounds.

Wakita M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Cognitive Neuroscience Section, Primate Research Institute, Kyoto University, 
Kanrin 41-2, Inuyama, Aichi 484-8506, Japan. Electronic address:
wakita.masumi.2e@kyoto-u.ac.jp.

Processing the temporal configuration of discrete sounds to extract a regular
pattern is fundamental to humans' faculties of perceiving words and musical
phrases. To investigate such auditory pattern perception in monkeys, I trained
two common marmosets to discriminate between AB-AB and AA-BB patterns under two
training paradigms. One was an absolute discrimination task, in which the
discrimination between these stimuli without reference cues was required. The
other was a relative discrimination task, in which the detection of a change from
one stimulus to the other was required. The marmosets failed in the absolute
discrimination task but achieved the relative discrimination task. Failure in the
absolute task indicated that the marmosets were unable to form a representation
of the global sound patterns in their long-term memory stores. In contrast,
success in the relative task indicated that the marmosets had short-term memory
of ongoing sounds that enabled an online monitoring to detect deviations between 
incoming sounds and the anticipated upcoming sounds. Thus, the current findings
imply that marmosets can at least perceive adjacent tone relations in an auditory
stream regardless of the temporal configuration of the global sound patterns.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.beproc.2020.104136 
PMID: 32404248  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The author
declares no conflict of interest related to this manuscript.


313. J Neurosci. 2020 Jun 10;40(24):4739-4749. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.2930-19.2020.
Epub 2020 May 11.

Trait Anxiety Mediated by Amygdala Serotonin Transporter in the Common Marmoset.

Quah SKL(1)(2), McIver L(3)(2), Roberts AC(3)(2), Santangelo AM(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Development and Neuroscience, University of
Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 3DY, United Kingdom sklq2@cam.ac.uk as966@cam.ac.uk.
(2)Behavioral and Clinical Neuroscience Institute, University of Cambridge,
Cambridge CB2 3EB, United Kingdom.
(3)Department of Physiology, Development and Neuroscience, University of
Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 3DY, United Kingdom.

High trait anxiety is associated with altered activity across emotion regulation 
circuitry and a higher risk of developing anxiety disorders and depression. This 
circuitry is extensively modulated by serotonin. Here, to understand why some
people may be more vulnerable to developing affective disorders, we investigated 
whether serotonin-related gene expression across the brain's emotion regulation
circuitry may underlie individual differences in trait anxiety using the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus, mixed sexes) as a model. First, we assessed the
association of region-specific expression of the serotonin transporter (SLC6A4)
and serotonin receptor (HTR1A, HTR2A, HTR2C) genes with anxiety-like behavior;
and second, we investigated their causal role in two key features of the high
trait anxious phenotype: high responsivity to anxiety-provoking stimuli and an
exaggerated conditioned threat response. While the expression of the serotonin
receptors did not show a significant relationship with anxiety-like behavior in
any of the targeted brain regions, serotonin transporter expression, specifically
within the right ventrolateral prefrontal cortex (vlPFC) and most strongly in the
right amygdala, was associated positively with anxiety-like behavior. The causal 
relationship between amygdala serotonin levels and an animal's sensitivity to
threat was confirmed via direct amygdala infusions of a selective serotonin
reuptake inhibitor (SSRI), citalopram. Both anxiety-like behaviors, and
conditioned threat-induced responses were reduced by the blockade of serotonin
reuptake in the amygdala. Together, these findings provide evidence that high
amygdala serotonin transporter expression contributes to the high trait anxious
phenotype and suggest that reduction of threat reactivity by SSRIs may be
mediated by their actions in the amygdala.SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT Findings here
contribute to our understanding of how the serotonin system underlies an
individual's expression of threat-elicited negative emotions such as anxiety and 
fear within nonhuman primates. Exploration of serotonergic gene expression across
brain regions implicated in emotion regulation revealed that serotonin
transporter gene expression in the ventrolateral prefrontal cortex (vlPFC) and
most strongly in the amygdala, but none of the serotonin receptor genes, were
predictive of interindividual differences in anxiety-like behavior. Targeting of 
amygdala serotonin reuptake with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) 
confirmed the causal relationship between amygdala serotonin transporter and an
animal's sensitivity to threat by reversing expression of two key features of the
high trait-like anxiety phenotype: high responsivity to anxiety-provoking
uncertain threat and responsivity to certain conditioned threat.

Copyright © 2020 the authors.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.2930-19.2020 
PMCID: PMC7294798
PMID: 32393533  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

