

3125. J Neurophysiol. 2001 Nov;86(5):2616-20.

Differential representation of species-specific primate vocalizations in the
auditory cortices of marmoset and cat.

Wang X(1), Kadia SC.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.
xwang@bme.jhu.edu

A number of studies in various species have demonstrated that natural
vocalizations generally produce stronger neural responses than do their
time-reversed versions. The majority of neurons in the primary auditory cortex
(A1) of marmoset monkeys responds more strongly to natural marmoset vocalizations
than to the time-reversed vocalizations. However, it was unclear whether such
differences in neural responses were simply due to the difference between the
acoustic structures of natural and time-reversed vocalizations or whether they
also resulted from the difference in behavioral relevance of both types of the
stimuli. To address this issue, we have compared neural responses to natural and 
time-reversed marmoset twitter calls in A1 of cats with those obtained from A1 of
marmosets using identical stimuli. It was found that the preference for natural
marmoset twitter calls demonstrated in marmoset A1 was absent in cat A1. While
both cortices responded approximately equally to time-reversed twitter calls,
marmoset A1 responded much more strongly to natural twitter calls than did cat
A1. This differential representation of marmoset vocalizations in two cortices
suggests that experience-dependent and possibly species-specific mechanisms are
involved in cortical processing of communication sounds.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.2001.86.5.2616 
PMID: 11698547  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3126. Toxicol Pathol. 2001 Sep-Oct;29(5):565-73.

Methylmercury poisoning in common marmosets--a study of selective vulnerability
within the cerebral cortex.

Eto K(1), Yasutake A, Kuwana T, Korogi Y, Akima M, Shimozeki T, Tokunaga H,
Kaneko Y.

Author information: 
(1)National Institute for Minamata Disease, Ministry of the Environment, Minamatu
City, Kumamoto, Japan. kometo@nimd.go.jp

Neuropathological lesions found in chronic human Minamata disease tend to be
localized in the calcarine cortex of occipital lobes, the pre- and postcentral
lobuli, and the temporal gyri. The mechanism for the selective vulnerability is
still not clear, though several hypotheses have been proposed. One hypothesis is 
vascular and postulates that the lesions are the result of ischemia secondary to 
compression of sulcal arteries from methylmercury-induced cerebral edema. To test
this hypothesis, we studied common marmosets because the cerebrum of marmosets
has 2 distinct deep sulci, the calcarine and Sylvian fissures. MRI analysis,
mercury assays of tissue specimens, histologic and histochemical studies of the
brain are reported and discussed. Brains sacrificed early after exposure to
methylmercury showed high contents of methylmercury and edema of the cerebral
white matter. These results may explain the selective cortical degeneration along
the deep cerebral fissures or sulci.

DOI: 10.1080/019262301317226375 
PMID: 11695574  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

