

313. J Neurosci. 2020 Jun 10;40(24):4739-4749. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.2930-19.2020.
Epub 2020 May 11.

Trait Anxiety Mediated by Amygdala Serotonin Transporter in the Common Marmoset.

Quah SKL(1)(2), McIver L(3)(2), Roberts AC(3)(2), Santangelo AM(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Development and Neuroscience, University of
Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 3DY, United Kingdom sklq2@cam.ac.uk as966@cam.ac.uk.
(2)Behavioral and Clinical Neuroscience Institute, University of Cambridge,
Cambridge CB2 3EB, United Kingdom.
(3)Department of Physiology, Development and Neuroscience, University of
Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 3DY, United Kingdom.

High trait anxiety is associated with altered activity across emotion regulation 
circuitry and a higher risk of developing anxiety disorders and depression. This 
circuitry is extensively modulated by serotonin. Here, to understand why some
people may be more vulnerable to developing affective disorders, we investigated 
whether serotonin-related gene expression across the brain's emotion regulation
circuitry may underlie individual differences in trait anxiety using the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus, mixed sexes) as a model. First, we assessed the
association of region-specific expression of the serotonin transporter (SLC6A4)
and serotonin receptor (HTR1A, HTR2A, HTR2C) genes with anxiety-like behavior;
and second, we investigated their causal role in two key features of the high
trait anxious phenotype: high responsivity to anxiety-provoking stimuli and an
exaggerated conditioned threat response. While the expression of the serotonin
receptors did not show a significant relationship with anxiety-like behavior in
any of the targeted brain regions, serotonin transporter expression, specifically
within the right ventrolateral prefrontal cortex (vlPFC) and most strongly in the
right amygdala, was associated positively with anxiety-like behavior. The causal 
relationship between amygdala serotonin levels and an animal's sensitivity to
threat was confirmed via direct amygdala infusions of a selective serotonin
reuptake inhibitor (SSRI), citalopram. Both anxiety-like behaviors, and
conditioned threat-induced responses were reduced by the blockade of serotonin
reuptake in the amygdala. Together, these findings provide evidence that high
amygdala serotonin transporter expression contributes to the high trait anxious
phenotype and suggest that reduction of threat reactivity by SSRIs may be
mediated by their actions in the amygdala.SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT Findings here
contribute to our understanding of how the serotonin system underlies an
individual's expression of threat-elicited negative emotions such as anxiety and 
fear within nonhuman primates. Exploration of serotonergic gene expression across
brain regions implicated in emotion regulation revealed that serotonin
transporter gene expression in the ventrolateral prefrontal cortex (vlPFC) and
most strongly in the amygdala, but none of the serotonin receptor genes, were
predictive of interindividual differences in anxiety-like behavior. Targeting of 
amygdala serotonin reuptake with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) 
confirmed the causal relationship between amygdala serotonin transporter and an
animal's sensitivity to threat by reversing expression of two key features of the
high trait-like anxiety phenotype: high responsivity to anxiety-provoking
uncertain threat and responsivity to certain conditioned threat.

Copyright © 2020 the authors.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.2930-19.2020 
PMCID: PMC7294798
PMID: 32393533  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


314. J Comp Psychol. 2020 May 11. doi: 10.1037/com0000226. [Epub ahead of print]

Comparative assessment of behaviorally derived personality structures in
golden-handed tamarins (Saguinus midas), cotton-top tamarins (Saguinus oedipus), 
and common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Masilkova M(1), Weiss A(2), Šlipogor V(3), Konečná M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Zoology.
(2)Department of Psychology.
(3)Department of Behavioral and Cognitive Biology.

One way to address questions about the origins and adaptive significance of
personality dimensions is by comparing the personality structures of closely
related species that differ in their socioecological circumstances. For the
present study, we compared the personalities of captive golden-handed tamarins
(Saguinus midas; N = 28), cotton-top tamarins (Saguinus oedipus; N = 20), and
common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus; N = 17). All 3 species are New World
monkeys of the family Callitrichidae. They thus share reproductive and behavioral
characteristics but differ some in terms of their diet, habitat, and social
organization. We expected that personality structures of closely related tamarin 
species would overlap more, both in terms of number of dimensions and their
content, than either would overlap with the personality structure of common
marmosets. We assessed personality using behavioral observations and compared the
personality structures by means of cross-species correlations and fuzzy set
analyses. Principal component analyses identified components that we labeled
Agreeableness, Assertiveness, and Extraversion in golden-handed tamarins and
common marmosets and components labeled Confidence and Extraversion in cotton-top
tamarins. The greater personality similarities of the two phylogenetically more
distant species suggest that differences in social organization, and in both
habitat diversity and complexity, contributed to the evolution of personality.
However, we also found that behaviors clustered in similar ways in the two
tamarin species, suggesting that phylogenetic relatedness and genus-specific
socioecological characteristics, such as the degree of reproductive competition, 
shaped personality structure in this primate family. (PsycInfo Database Record
(c) 2020 APA, all rights reserved).

DOI: 10.1037/com0000226 
PMID: 32391706 

