

3130. Exp Neurol. 2001 Nov;172(1):189-98.

Antiparkinsonian action of a delta opioid agonist in rodent and primate models of
Parkinson's disease.

Hille CJ(1), Fox SH, Maneuf YP, Crossman AR, Brotchie JM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, University of Oxford, Oxford OX1 3QT, United
Kingdom.

The opioid peptides localized in striatal projection neurons are of great
relevance to Parkinson's disease, not only as a consequence of their
distribution, but also due to the pronounced changes in expression seen in
Parkinson's disease. It has long been suspected that increased expression of
enkephalin may represent one of the many mechanisms that compensate for dopamine 
(DA) depletion in Parkinson's disease. Here we demonstrate that a systemically
delivered, selective delta opioid agonist (SNC80) has potent antiparkinsonian
actions in both rat and primate models of Parkinson's disease. In rats treated
with either the D2-preferring DA antagonist haloperidol (1 mg/kg) or the
selective D1 antagonist SCH23390 (1 mg/kg), but not a combination of D1 and D2
antagonists, SNC80 (10 mg/kg) completely reversed the catalepsy induced by DA
antagonists. In rats rendered immobile by treatment with reserpine, SNC80
dose-dependently reversed akinesia (EC(50) 7.49 mg/kg). These effects were
dose-dependently inhibited (IC(50) 1.05 mg/kg) by a selective delta opioid
antagonist (naltrindole) and by SCH23390 (1 mg/kg), but not by haloperidol (1
mg/kg). SNC80 also reversed parkinsonian symptoms in the MPTP-treated marmoset.
At 10 mg/kg (ip), scores measuring bradykinesia and posture were significantly
reduced and motor activity increased to levels comparable with pre-MPTP-treatment
scores. Any treatment that serves to increase delta opioid receptor activation
may be a useful therapeutic strategy for the treatment of Parkinson's disease,
either in the early stages or as an adjunct to dopamine replacement therapy.
Furthermore, enhanced enkephalin expression observed in Parkinson's disease may
serve to potentiate dopamine acting preferentially at D1 receptors.

Copyright 2001 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/exnr.2001.7763 
PMID: 11681851  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3131. Reproduction. 2001 Sep;122(3):419-29.

Comparison of androgen receptor and oestrogen receptor beta immunoexpression in
the testes of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) from birth to adulthood:
low androgen receptor immunoexpression in Sertoli cells during the neonatal
increase in testosterone concentrations.

McKinnell C(1), Saunders PT, Fraser HM, Kelnar CJ, Kivlin C, Morris KD, Sharpe
RM.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Human Reproductive Sciences Unit, Centre for Reproductive Biology, 37
Chalmers Street, Edinburgh EH3 9ET, UK. c.mckinnell@hrsu.mrc.ac.uk

The aims of this study were: (i) to investigate the cellular immunoexpression of 
androgen receptor and oestrogen receptor beta in the testes of the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) during neonatal life compared with their expression
at later ages; (ii) to establish whether neonatal marmoset Sertoli cells are
targets for androgens or oestrogens or both; and (iii) to investigate the
relationship between neonatal plasma testosterone concentrations and androgen
receptor immunoexpression by abolishing the neonatal testosterone surge with a
potent GnRH antagonist. Androgen receptor and oestrogen receptor beta
immunoexpression were evaluated in neonatal animals aged 1-4 days, 4 weeks and 6 
weeks, and compared with immunoexpression in animals aged 18-22 weeks (early
infancy), 35 weeks (late infancy), 58-62 weeks (late pubertal) and > 100 weeks
(adult). Immunoexpression of androgen receptor in the reproductive tract was also
evaluated at each age. Sertoli cell immunoexpression of androgen receptor was
weak or absent in neonatal animals, but increased substantially in infant
animals, reaching adult levels by the end of infancy. In contrast,
immunoexpression of androgen receptor during the neonatal period was strong in
testicular interstitial cells and very strong in epithelial cell nuclei
throughout the reproductive tract, and did not change greatly with age in these
cells or tissues. Similarly, immunoexpression of oestrogen receptor beta was
prominent in many Sertoli cells and in the germ cells of neonatal animals, and
was relatively constant throughout life. Weak immunoexpression of androgen
receptor in neonatal Sertoli cells was associated with high plasma testosterone
concentrations (2.7-5.5 ng ml(-1)), whereas strong Sertoli cell immunoexpression 
was associated with baseline (approximately 0.12 ng ml(-1)) testosterone
concentrations in infant animals and with > 10 ng ml(-1) in late pubertal and
adult animals. Immunoexpression of androgen receptor and oestrogen receptor beta 
was also evaluated in co-twin males aged 4 and 35 weeks, after treatment from
birth to 4 weeks or from week 25 to week 35, respectively, with either vehicle or
with GnRH antagonist at a dose known to suppress the neonatal testosterone surge 
completely. Only GnRH antagonist treatment during weeks 25-35 reduced androgen
receptor immunoexpression, whereas immunoexpression of oestrogen receptor beta
was unaffected by treatment during either period. On the basis of these findings 
it is suggested that: (i) neonatal marmoset Sertoli cells may be targets
primarily for oestrogens rather than androgens; (ii) androgen receptor expression
in the testes of neonatal and infant marmosets is not regulated in a
straightforward way by testosterone; and (iii) high neonatal concentrations of
plasma testosterone are not absolutely necessary for expression of androgen
receptor in marmoset testes at this time.

DOI: 10.1530/rep.0.1220419 
PMID: 11597306  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

