

3133. Eur J Immunol. 2001 Oct;31(10):2942-50.

Frequency, heterogeneity and encephalitogenicity of T cells specific for myelin
oligodendrocyte glycoprotein in naive outbred primates.

Villoslada P(1), Abel K, Heald N, Goertsches R, Hauser SL, Genain CP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University of California, San Francisco, USA.
pvilloslada@unav.es

Auto-reactive T cells present in healthy subjects remain in a state of
unresponsiveness, but may trigger autoimmunity under various situations. Although
myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG) is a potential target antigen in
multiple sclerosis (MS), MOG-reactive T cell responses are present in the blood
of both healthy subjects and MS-affected individuals. To investigate the
disease-inducing potential and regulation of these autoreactive T cells in
healthy outbred populations, we have characterized MOG-reactive T cell clones
obtained by limiting dilution from peripheral blood of unimmunized C. jacchus
marmosets. We report an extraordinarily high prevalence of circulating
MOG-reactive T cells in these naive animals (2.6 +/- 1.4 / 10(5) PBMC), and a
broadly diverse repertoire of epitope recognition encompassing at least three
regions within the extracellular domain of MOG. Adoptive transfer of a
MOG21-40-specific T cell clone resulted in mild clinical experimental allergic
encephalomyelitis, characterized pathologically by rare foci of inflammation and 
minimal demyelination. We conclude that MOG-reactive T cells are present in
healthy primates at a highly prevalent frequency, and are potentially capable of 
triggering central nervous system autoimmunity. Expansion of these autoreactive T
cells must be tightly controlled to maintain immune homeostasis in healthy
individuals.

DOI: 10.1002/1521-4141(2001010)31:10<2942::aid-immu2942>3.0.co;2-m 
PMID: 11592070  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3134. Cereb Cortex. 2001 Nov;11(11):1015-26.

Differential effects of 6-OHDA lesions of the frontal cortex and caudate nucleus 
on the ability to acquire an attentional set.

Crofts HS(1), Dalley JW, Collins P, Van Denderen JC, Everitt BJ, Robbins TW,
Roberts AC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, University of Cambridge, Downing Site, 
Cambridge CB2 3DY, UK. hc233@hermes.cam.ac.uk

Evidence from both human and animal studies indicates that catecholamine
(dopamine and noradrenaline) imbalances in the fronto-striatal circuitry are
associated with deficits in higher- order cognitive functions. The present study 
examined how catecholamines within this circuitry modulate attentional function, 
specifically the ability to develop, maintain, and shift an attentional set.
Catecholamine depletions within the frontal cortex of the common marmoset
impaired the ability to acquire an attentional set, and increased susceptibility 
to distraction from task-irrelevant stimuli. Analysis of set-shifting performance
with stimulus dimensions of varying salience suggested that frontal catecholamine
depletion selectively disrupts "top-down", but not "bottom-up" attentional
processing. In contrast, the ability to acquire and shift an attentional set
remained intact following dopaminergic depletion from the caudate nucleus.
However, the reduced susceptibility to distraction from task-irrelevant stimuli
displayed by monkeys with dopaminergic depletions of the caudate nucleus suggests
that responding was under more rigid control by the currently rewarded stimulus. 
The results demonstrate opposite behavioural effects of 6-hydroxydopamine
(6-OHDA) lesions in the frontal cortex and caudate nucleus in tasks requiring
selective attention. Frontal catecholamine depletion caused an increase in
distractibility while caudate dopamine loss induced greater focusing of
responding.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/11.11.1015 
PMID: 11590111  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

