

3134. Cereb Cortex. 2001 Nov;11(11):1015-26.

Differential effects of 6-OHDA lesions of the frontal cortex and caudate nucleus 
on the ability to acquire an attentional set.

Crofts HS(1), Dalley JW, Collins P, Van Denderen JC, Everitt BJ, Robbins TW,
Roberts AC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, University of Cambridge, Downing Site, 
Cambridge CB2 3DY, UK. hc233@hermes.cam.ac.uk

Evidence from both human and animal studies indicates that catecholamine
(dopamine and noradrenaline) imbalances in the fronto-striatal circuitry are
associated with deficits in higher- order cognitive functions. The present study 
examined how catecholamines within this circuitry modulate attentional function, 
specifically the ability to develop, maintain, and shift an attentional set.
Catecholamine depletions within the frontal cortex of the common marmoset
impaired the ability to acquire an attentional set, and increased susceptibility 
to distraction from task-irrelevant stimuli. Analysis of set-shifting performance
with stimulus dimensions of varying salience suggested that frontal catecholamine
depletion selectively disrupts "top-down", but not "bottom-up" attentional
processing. In contrast, the ability to acquire and shift an attentional set
remained intact following dopaminergic depletion from the caudate nucleus.
However, the reduced susceptibility to distraction from task-irrelevant stimuli
displayed by monkeys with dopaminergic depletions of the caudate nucleus suggests
that responding was under more rigid control by the currently rewarded stimulus. 
The results demonstrate opposite behavioural effects of 6-hydroxydopamine
(6-OHDA) lesions in the frontal cortex and caudate nucleus in tasks requiring
selective attention. Frontal catecholamine depletion caused an increase in
distractibility while caudate dopamine loss induced greater focusing of
responding.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/11.11.1015 
PMID: 11590111  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3135. Mol Hum Reprod. 2001 Oct;7(10):963-70.

Characterization of relaxin binding in the uterus of the marmoset monkey.

Einspanier A(1), Müller D, Lubberstedt J, Bartsch O, Jurdzinski A, Fuhrmann K,
Ivell R.

Author information: 
(1)Deutsches Primatenzentrum, Kellnerweg 4, 37077 Göttingen, Germany.
aeinspa@gwdg.de

The ovarian peptide hormone relaxin (RLX) plays an important role in the
regulation of the endometrium both during the cycle and in early pregnancy. RLX
interacts with specific receptors on endometrial stromal cells causing these to
decidualize. In order to characterize the molecules with which RLX interacts in
the primate uterus, a methodology based on a fully bioactive preparation of
biotinylated porcine RLX was applied to cryosections of the uterus of female
marmoset monkeys. Specific RLX binding was weakly detected in the proliferative
phase in isolated endometrial stromal cells. In the secretory phase, the
positively reacting cells increased in staining intensity and in number and also 
included some epithelial cells. Further increases occurred in pregnancy, but RLX 
binding in the endometrium decreased at the end of the cycle if pregnancy did not
occur. The myometrium showed weak staining which did not vary through the cycle, 
but increased in pregnancy. Electrophoretic analysis of the RLX-binding moieties 
in these tissue sections indicated that a protein of approximately 40 kDa was the
principal RLX-binding molecule, while minor specific bands were detectable at
approximately 100 and approximately 200 kDa. The binding of biotinylated RLX
could be specifically suppressed by co-incubation with unlabelled RLX, but not by
insulin, IGF-I or biotin. This technique therefore allows the detection and
molecular characterization of specific RLX binding in the primate uterus. In the 
marmoset monkey, the pattern of specific binding closely reflects the
RLX-dependent physiology during implantation and early pregnancy, implying the
probable involvement of a specific RLX receptor.

DOI: 10.1093/molehr/7.10.963 
PMID: 11574665  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

