

3139. Cereb Cortex. 2001 Sep;11(9):849-67.

Area 3a: topographic organization and cortical connections in marmoset monkeys.

Huffman KJ(1), Krubitzer L.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Neuroscience and Department of Psychology, University of
California, Davis 95616, USA.

The functional organization of area 3a, a cortical field proposed to be involved 
in somato-motor-vestibular integration, has never been described for any primate.
In the present investigation, the topographic organization and connections of
area 3a were examined in marmosets using electrophysiological recording and
anatomical tracing techniques. Multi-unit neuronal activity was recorded at a
number of closely spaced sites; receptive fields (RFs) for neurons were
determined, and the optimal stimulus was identified. In all cases, neurons in
area 3a responded to the stimulation of deep receptors on the contralateral body.
The representation of the body in area 3a was from the toes and foot, to the
hindlimb, trunk, forelimb, hand and face in a mediolateral progression. In all
cases electrophysiological results were related to myeloarchitecture, and the map
in area 3a was found to be coextensive with a strip of lightly to moderately
myelinated cortex just rostral to the darkly myelinated 3b. To examine the
cortical connections of area 3a, injections of anatomical tracers were made into 
electrophysiologically identified body part representations. Area 3a has dense
intrinsic connections and receives substantial inputs from the primary motor
cortex (M1), the supplementary motor area (SMA), areas 1 and 2, the second
somatosensory area (S2), and areas in posterior parietal cortex (PP). The
connections of area 3a indicate that integration of cortical representations of
body parts occurs both within area 3a and between area 3a and other somatosensory
and motor areas. In addition, there are differential patterns of interconnections
between behaviorally relevant body part representations of area 3a, such as the
forelimb, compared to other body part representations (hindlimb/ trunk),
especially with 'higher order' cortical fields. This suggests that 3a may be an
important component in a network that generates a common frame of reference for
hand and eye coordinated reaching tasks.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/11.9.849 
PMID: 11532890  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3140. J Neuroimmunol. 2001 Sep 3;119(1):124-30.

Novel monoclonal antibodies against proteolipid protein peptide 139-151
demonstrate demyelination and myelin uptake by macrophages in MS and marmoset EAE
lesions.

Laman JD(1), Visser L, Maassen CB, de Groot CJ, de Jong LA, 't Hart BA, van Meurs
M, Schellekens MM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, Erasmus University Rotterdam and University Hospital
Dijkzigt, P.O. Box 1738, 3000 DR, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
Laman@immu.fgg.eur.nl

Experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) induced by immunization of mice
with epitopes of the proteolipid protein (PLP), a major myelin constituent, forms
a useful model for the study of multiple sclerosis (MS). In addition, MS patients
display PLP-specific T- and B-cell responses, suggesting that PLP reactivity is
relevant to pathogenesis.Here, the generation and characterization of a panel of 
mouse monoclonal antibodies (Mab) against PLP139-151, the prominent
encephalitogenic sequence in SJL/J mice is described. Five Mab were generated by 
conventional immunization of an SJL/J mouse and hybridoma generation. These Mab
reacted well with the PLP139-151 peptide in ELISA and belonged to the IgG2a and
IgG2b subclasses, consistent with CD4+ T helper 1-cell-supported antibody
formation. The Mab also efficiently detected PLP peptide-BSA conjugates in
Western blot, confirming their multi-assay applicability. The Mab were
subsequently used to determine the occurrence of demyelination in brains of MS
patients and marmoset monkeys with EAE. Immunohistochemistry on both paraffin and
frozen sections demonstrated a homogeneous expression of PLP139-151 in normal
myelin, and a complete absence in lesions containing demyelinated areas,
confirming that the Mab can be used as a general myelin marker. In active
demyelinating MS lesions, the Mab visualized the peptide in the cytoplasm of
macrophages containing phagocytosed myelin. In conclusion, this panel of Mab
against the encephalitogenic PLP139-151 epitope forms a useful tool for further
study of autoantigen expression, demyelination/remyelination and the staging of
lesional activity in MS patients, as well as in EAE models in distinct animal
species.

DOI: 10.1016/s0165-5728(01)00356-3 
PMID: 11525809  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

