

3142. J Virol Methods. 2001 Jul;96(1):93-6.

Efficient isolation of mumps virus from a community outbreak using the marmoset
lymphoblastoid cell line B95a.

Knowles WA(1), Cohen BJ.

Author information: 
(1)Enteric Respiratory and Neurological Virus Laboratory, Virus Reference
Division, Central Public Health Laboratory, 61 Colindale Avenue, London NW9 5HT, 
UK. wknowles@phls.org.uk

The incidence of mumps infection in the UK was reduced greatly by vaccination as 
a component of MMR vaccine, but cases and outbreaks continue to occur. Although
in specialised laboratories RT-PCR is available for detection of mumps virus RNA 
in clinical samples, in routine laboratories virus isolation remains a standard
method for diagnosing mumps virus infection. Furthermore, isolation of mumps
virus strains circulating currently is important for monitoring the ability of
vaccine-induced antibody to neutralise any genotypes recognised recently and to
detect any changes in phenotype. In this study we compared rhesus monkey kidney
(RMK) cells with the cell line B95a for mumps virus isolation from twenty throat 
swabs collected during a mumps outbreak in a religious community with low MMR
coverage. Mumps virus was isolated from eight cases (40%), six were positive in
both cell cultures and two in only one, all positive samples being collected
within 2 days of onset. Virus growth in B95a cells was detected by the production
of a syncytial cytopathic effect, and confirmed by an indirect fluorescent
antibody test using a mumps monoclonal antibody. The B95a cell line was found to 
be equally as sensitive for mumps isolation as RMK cells, which are regarded as
the 'gold standard', thus providing an alternative to the use of primary animal
cell culture.

DOI: 10.1016/s0166-0934(01)00326-3 
PMID: 11516492  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3143. J Neural Transm (Vienna). 2001;108(7):809-26.

Chronic elevation of amyloid precursor protein in the neocortex or hippocampus of
marmosets with selective cholinergic lesions.

Ramirez MJ(1), Ridley RM, Baker HF, Maclean CJ, Honer WG, Francis PT.

Author information: 
(1)Dementia Research Laboratory, Neuroscience Research Centre, GKT School of
Biomedical Sciences, King's College London, United Kingdom.

In vitro studies have consistently demonstrated a link between cholinergic
neurotransmission and amyloid precursor protein metabolism, although few studies 
have examined such a relationship in vivo and none have been conducted in primate
species. The purpose of this study was to test the hypothesis that a reduction in
cholinergic activity in neocortical and hippocampal areas consequent upon
destruction of ascending cholinergic projections may lead to long-term changes in
levels of amyloid precursor protein in these target areas in a primate species.
The status of three synaptic proteins associated with neurotransmitter release,
synaptophysin, syntaxin and SNAP-25, was also been examined. Selective
immunolesions of the basal forebrain cholinergic projections led to increases in 
amyloid precursor protein-like immunoreactivity in hippocampus and cortex,
measured 8 months postlesion. Furthermore, reductions in cortical and hippocampal
SNAP-25, but not syntaxin or synaptophysin, immunoreactivity were observed. These
results imply that the reduced cholinergic activity characteristic of Alzheimer's
disease may contribute to the continuing emergence of neuropathology in addition 
to the well-known association with cognitive dysfunction.

DOI: 10.1007/s007020170031 
PMID: 11515747  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

