

3143. J Neural Transm (Vienna). 2001;108(7):809-26.

Chronic elevation of amyloid precursor protein in the neocortex or hippocampus of
marmosets with selective cholinergic lesions.

Ramirez MJ(1), Ridley RM, Baker HF, Maclean CJ, Honer WG, Francis PT.

Author information: 
(1)Dementia Research Laboratory, Neuroscience Research Centre, GKT School of
Biomedical Sciences, King's College London, United Kingdom.

In vitro studies have consistently demonstrated a link between cholinergic
neurotransmission and amyloid precursor protein metabolism, although few studies 
have examined such a relationship in vivo and none have been conducted in primate
species. The purpose of this study was to test the hypothesis that a reduction in
cholinergic activity in neocortical and hippocampal areas consequent upon
destruction of ascending cholinergic projections may lead to long-term changes in
levels of amyloid precursor protein in these target areas in a primate species.
The status of three synaptic proteins associated with neurotransmitter release,
synaptophysin, syntaxin and SNAP-25, was also been examined. Selective
immunolesions of the basal forebrain cholinergic projections led to increases in 
amyloid precursor protein-like immunoreactivity in hippocampus and cortex,
measured 8 months postlesion. Furthermore, reductions in cortical and hippocampal
SNAP-25, but not syntaxin or synaptophysin, immunoreactivity were observed. These
results imply that the reduced cholinergic activity characteristic of Alzheimer's
disease may contribute to the continuing emergence of neuropathology in addition 
to the well-known association with cognitive dysfunction.

DOI: 10.1007/s007020170031 
PMID: 11515747  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3144. J Med Primatol. 2001 Jun;30(3):179-84.

Callitrichid nutrition and food sensitivity.

Gore MA(1), Brandes F, Kaup FJ, Lenzner R, Mothes T, Osman AA.

Author information: 
(1)Animal Conservation and Research Department, Royal Zoological Society of
Scotland, Edinburgh, UK. mgore@rzss.org.uk

Captive callitrichids are prone to developing intestinal problems. Their captive 
and natural diets differ enormously, and diet has been suggested to play a major 
role in wasting marmoset syndrome. Proteins in wheat, soy and milk are included
in callitrichid diets of most colonies and have been linked to an immune reaction
in Saguinus oedipus and Callithrix jacchus. In the present study of 23 males and 
females of the two species, wheat protein was tested but soy and milk products
were excluded. One group had wheat and the other had rice in their diet. Blood
samples and biopsies from the colon were taken. Results showed changes in the
colon and an immune reaction to gliadin, a wheat protein related to coeliac
disease in humans. A further immune reaction was also observed. Suggestions for
further study and exclusion of cereal in the diet of these small, New World
primates are discussed.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0684.2001.tb00007.x 
PMID: 11515674  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

