

3148. Anat Rec. 2001 Sep 1;264(1):82-92.

Characteristics of the uterine luminal surface epithelium at preovulatory and
preimplantation stages in the marmoset monkey.

Niklaus AL(1), Murphy CR, Lopata A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Melbourne, Victoria
3053, Australia. anikl001@umaryland.edu

Light and electron microscopy was used to examine the apical luminal epithelial
surface of the uterus at preovulatory and preimplantation stages in the marmoset 
monkey. Luminal surface charge, detected by cationic ferritin staining,
progressively decreased from preovulation to day 11 of pregnancy. The smooth,
regular apical plasma membrane at preovulatory stages was in contrast to the
convoluted, irregular surface observed during early pregnancy, especially at 1
day before blastocyst implantation. Profiles of microvilli were also altered,
becoming thicker and more irregular during early pregnancy. Within the epithelial
cell body, cyclic morphologic changes were seen, largely in association with
secretory organelles. Giant phagocytic bodies were prominent at all stages
examined, although their composition and intensity of staining varied throughout 
the cycle. Weak to moderate estrogen alpha and progesterone receptor
immunostaining of the luminal epithelium was found during preovulatory and early 
pregnancy stages. This study describes complex cyclic changes in the morphology
and biochemical make-up of the uterine luminal epithelial surface in a New World 
monkey in preparation for blastocyst attachment.

Copyright 2001 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ar.1124 
PMID: 11505374  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3149. Vis Neurosci. 2001 May-Jun;18(3):407-12.

Ocular dominance columns in the adult New World Monkey Callithrix jacchus.

Chappert-Piquemal C(1), Fonta C, Malecaze F, Imbert M.

Author information: 
(1)Centre de Recherche Cerveau et Cognition, UMR5549 Centre National de la
Recherche Scientifique/Université Paul Sabatier, Faculté de Médecine de Rangueil,
Toulouse, France.

In the marmoset Callithrix jacchus, ocular dominance columns (ODC) have been
reported to be present in young animals, but absent in adults (Spatz, 1989). We
have studied in juvenile and adult animals the postnatal organization of the
retino-geniculo-cortical afferents by means of transneuronal labeling. We show in
the present work that ODC are present in the primary visual cortex of Callithrix 
jacchus, both in the adult and in the juvenile animal. The present work confirms 
the presence of ODC in the visual cortex of juvenile marmoset before the end of
the first postnatal month. In 2-month-old animals, ODC are well demarcated in
IVcalpha and IVcbeta. In the adult marmosets, the present data clearly show that 
the primary visual cortex is also organized with ODC. In horizontal sections,
they form a mosaic through the ventral and dorsal calcarine cortex and through
the dorso-lateral occipital part of the striate cortex. In frontal sections,
their presence is manifest in IVcbeta within the calcarine cortex and they only
faintly appear in IVcalpha. These new findings are important since they underline
the usefulness of the adult New World Monkeys as a model in visual research.

DOI: 10.1017/s0952523801183070 
PMID: 11497417  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

