

3149. Vis Neurosci. 2001 May-Jun;18(3):407-12.

Ocular dominance columns in the adult New World Monkey Callithrix jacchus.

Chappert-Piquemal C(1), Fonta C, Malecaze F, Imbert M.

Author information: 
(1)Centre de Recherche Cerveau et Cognition, UMR5549 Centre National de la
Recherche Scientifique/Université Paul Sabatier, Faculté de Médecine de Rangueil,
Toulouse, France.

In the marmoset Callithrix jacchus, ocular dominance columns (ODC) have been
reported to be present in young animals, but absent in adults (Spatz, 1989). We
have studied in juvenile and adult animals the postnatal organization of the
retino-geniculo-cortical afferents by means of transneuronal labeling. We show in
the present work that ODC are present in the primary visual cortex of Callithrix 
jacchus, both in the adult and in the juvenile animal. The present work confirms 
the presence of ODC in the visual cortex of juvenile marmoset before the end of
the first postnatal month. In 2-month-old animals, ODC are well demarcated in
IVcalpha and IVcbeta. In the adult marmosets, the present data clearly show that 
the primary visual cortex is also organized with ODC. In horizontal sections,
they form a mosaic through the ventral and dorsal calcarine cortex and through
the dorso-lateral occipital part of the striate cortex. In frontal sections,
their presence is manifest in IVcbeta within the calcarine cortex and they only
faintly appear in IVcalpha. These new findings are important since they underline
the usefulness of the adult New World Monkeys as a model in visual research.

DOI: 10.1017/s0952523801183070 
PMID: 11497417  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3150. J Comp Neurol. 2001 Aug 20;437(2):219-39.

Bipolar cell diversity in the primate retina: morphologic and immunocytochemical 
analysis of a new world monkey, the marmoset Callithrix jacchus.

Chan TL(1), Martin PR, Clunas N, Grünert U.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology F13, Institute for Biomedical Research, The
University of Sydney, Sydney 2006, Australia.

The aim of this study was to identify the bipolar cell types in the retina of a
New World monkey, the common marmoset, and compare them with those found in the
Old World macaque monkey. Retinal whole-mounts, sections, or both, were stained
by using DiI labeling and immunohistochemical methods. Semithin sections were
analyzed by using quantitative methods. We show that the same morphologic types
of bipolar cell as described for the Old World macaque monkey by Boycott and
Wässle (Boycott and Wässle [1991] Eur. J. Neurosci. 3:1069-1088) are present in
marmoset retina: two types of midget bipolar cells, six type of diffuse bipolar
cells, a blue cone bipolar cell, and one type of rod bipolar cell. The pattern of
staining with different immunohistochemical markers ("fingerprint") of each
bipolar cell type in marmoset was also the same as described for macaque, with
one exception: the flat midget bipolar cell (FMB) class is labeled by antibodies 
to recoverin in macaque but is labeled by antibodies to CD15 in marmoset. The
labeled FMB cells in marmoset make contact with multiple cone photoreceptors
throughout most of the extrafoveal retina. The spatial density of bipolar cells
in marmoset is shown to be sufficient to support one-to-one connectivity of
midget bipolar and ganglion cells in the fovea and to allow for parallel pathways
to ganglion cells throughout the retina. Quantitative differences in the
morphology and receptor connectivity between marmoset and macaque can be related 
to differences in cone and rod photoreceptor density between the species. We
conclude that bipolar cell diversity is a preserved feature of the primate
retina.

Copyright 2001 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.1280 
PMID: 11494253  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

