

3151. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2001 Aug 14;98(17):9636-41. Epub 2001 Aug 7.

A novel mammalian receptor for the evolutionarily conserved type II GnRH.

Millar R(1), Lowe S, Conklin D, Pawson A, Maudsley S, Troskie B, Ott T, Millar M,
Lincoln G, Sellar R, Faurholm B, Scobie G, Kuestner R, Terasawa E, Katz A.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council Human Reproductive Sciences Unit, Edinburgh EH3 9ET, 
Scotland. r.millar@hrsu.mrc.ac.uk

Mammalian gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH I:
pGlu-His-Trp-Ser-Tyr-Gly-Leu-Arg-Pro-Gly-NH2) stimulates pituitary gonadotropin
secretion, which in turn stimulates the gonads. Whereas a hypothalamic form of
GnRH of variable structure (designated type I) had been shown to regulate
reproduction through a cognate type I receptor, it has recently become evident
that most vertebrates have one or two other forms of GnRH. One of these,
designated type II GnRH (GnRH II: pGlu-His-Ser-His-Gly-Trp-Tyr-Pro-Gly-NH2), is
conserved from fish to man and is widely distributed in the brain, suggesting
important neuromodulatory functions such as regulating K+ channels and
stimulating sexual arousal. We now report the cloning of a type II GnRH receptor 
from marmoset cDNA. The receptor has only 41% identity with the type I receptor
and, unlike the type I receptor, has a carboxyl-terminal tail. The receptor is
highly selective for GnRH II. As with the type I receptor, it couples to
G(alpha)q/11 and also activates extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK1/2)
but differs in activating p38 mitogen activated protein (MAP) kinase. The type II
receptor is more widely distributed than the type I receptor and is expressed
throughout the brain, including areas associated with sexual arousal, and in
diverse non-neural and reproductive tissues, suggesting a variety of functions.
Surprisingly, the type II receptor is expressed in the majority of gonadotropes. 
The presence of two GnRH receptors in gonadotropes, together with the differences
in their signaling, suggests different roles in gonadotrope functioning.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.141048498 
PMCID: PMC55504
PMID: 11493674  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3152. Mov Disord. 2001 Jul;16(4):642-50.

Neural mechanisms underlying peak-dose dyskinesia induced by levodopa and
apomorphine are distinct: evidence from the effects of the alpha(2) adrenoceptor 
antagonist idazoxan.

Fox SH(1), Henry B, Hill MP, Peggs D, Crossman AR, Brotchie JM.

Author information: 
(1)Walton Centre for Neurology and Neurosurgery, Liverpool, United Kingdom.

Dyskinesia, secondary to dopamine replacement therapy, is the major complication 
of currently available therapies for Parkinson's disease. Alpha(2) adrenoceptor
antagonists, such as idazoxan, can significantly reduce levodopa-induced
dyskinesia in the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-lesioned,
nonhuman primate model of Parkinson's disease and in human. This action of
adrenoceptor antagonists may involve blockade of the actions of noradrenaline
synthesised from levodopa. We hypothesise that, because dopamine receptor
agonists, such as apomorphine, cannot be metabolised to produce noradrenaline,
activation of adrenoceptors may not be involved in dyskinesia produced by such
agents. If this were the case, idazoxan would not be expected to reduce
apomorphine-induced dyskinesia. MPTP-lesioned marmosets with stable dyskinesia
induced by prolonged levodopa therapy were given an acute challenge with
apomorphine (0.3 mg/kg subcutaneously) or levodopa (8.0 mg/kg orally), these
doses produced equivalent peak-dose dyskinesia. Idazoxan (2.5 mg/kg p.o.), or
vehicle, was then administered with either apomorphine or levodopa. Idazoxan
abolished levodopa-induced dyskinesia but did not affect apomorphine-induced
dyskinesia (P < 0.05 and P > 0.05, respectively, Wilcoxon matched pairs test).
Idazoxan also extended the anti-parkinsonian actions of levodopa but did not
affect those of apomorphine. The pharmacological characteristics of the neural
mechanisms underlying levodopa-induced dyskinesia and apomorphine-induced
dyskinesia in parkinsonism thus appear to be distinct, at least with respect to
the involvement of alpha(2) adrenoceptors. Specifically, levodopa, but not
apomorphine-induced dyskinesia, involves activation of adrenoceptors. This
finding may have major implications for understanding dyskinesia and should be
borne in mind when designing clinical studies in which levodopa or dopamine
receptor agonist challenges are employed to assess potential anti-dyskinetic
properties of drugs.

Copyright 2001 Movement Disorder Society.

DOI: 10.1002/mds.1148 
PMID: 11481687  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

