

3155. Neuroreport. 2001 Jul 20;12(10):2231-6.

Functional imaging of brain activity in conscious monkeys responding to sexually 
arousing cues.

Ferris CF(1), Snowdon CT, King JA, Duong TQ, Ziegler TE, Ugurbil K, Ludwig R,
Schultz-Darken NJ, Wu Z, Olson DP, Sullivan JM Jr, Tannenbaum PL, Vaughan JT.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Massachusetts Medical School, 55 Lake 
Ave North, Worcester, MA 01655, USA.

Olfactory cues can elicit intense emotional responses. This study used fMRI in
male common marmoset monkeys to identify brain areas associated with sexual
arousal in response to odors of ovulating female monkeys. Under light anesthesia,
monkeys were secured in a specially designed restrainer and positioned in a 9.4 T
magnetic resonance spectrometer. When fully conscious, they were presented with
the scents of both ovariectomized and ovulating monkeys. The sexually arousing
odors of the ovulating monkeys enhanced signal intensity in the preoptic area and
anterior hypothalamus compared to the odors of ovariectomized monkeys. These data
corroborate previous findings in monkeys based on invasive electrical lesion and 
stimulation techniques and demonstrate the feasibility of using non-invasive
functional imaging on fully conscious common marmosets to study cue-elicited
emotional responses.

DOI: 10.1097/00001756-200107200-00037 
PMID: 11447340  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3156. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2001 Jul;86(7):3377-86.

Luteal angiogenesis: prevention and intervention by treatment with vascular
endothelial growth factor trap(A40).

Wulff C(1), Wilson H, Rudge JS, Wiegand SJ, Lunn SF, Fraser HM.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council Human Reproductive Sciences Unit, Edinburgh,
Scotland, United Kingdom EH3 9ET. c.wulff@hrsu.mrc.ac.uk

The possibility of stimulating or inhibiting paracrine factors regulating
angiogenesis may lead to new approaches for the treatment of pathological
conditions of the female reproductive tract. We examined the effects of a
clinical candidate, a soluble truncated form of the Flt-1 receptor, vascular
endothelial growth factor trap(A40) (VEGF trap), in a primate model to determine 
its ability to prevent the onset of luteal angiogenesis or intervene with the
on-going process. Marmosets were treated from the day of ovulation until luteal
day 3 (prevention regimen) or on luteal day 3 for 1 day (intervention regimen).
Effects of VEGF inhibition were studied by obtaining a proliferation index using 
bromodeoxyuridine incorporation, quantifying endothelial cell area using CD31,
and assessing luteal function by plasma progesterone. After both treatments,
intense luteal endothelial proliferation was suppressed, a concomitant decrease
in endothelial cell area confirmed the inhibition of vascular development, and a 
marked fall in plasma progesterone levels showed that luteal function was
compromised. In situ hybridization was used to localize and quantify compensatory
effects on the expression of angiogenic genes. VEGF messenger ribonucleic acid
(mRNA) expression in luteal cells was increased, whereas expression of its
receptor, Flt, was decreased. Inhibition of VEGF resulted in localized increased 
expression of angiopoietin-2 mRNA and its receptor, Tie-2. The results show that 
the VEGF trap can prevent luteal angiogenesis and inhibit the established process
with resultant suppression of luteal function. Luteal Flt mRNA expression is
dependent upon VEGF, and VEGF inhibition results in abortive increases in
expression of VEGF, angiopoietin-2, and Tie-2.

DOI: 10.1210/jcem.86.7.7662 
PMID: 11443214  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

