

3156. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2001 Jul;86(7):3377-86.

Luteal angiogenesis: prevention and intervention by treatment with vascular
endothelial growth factor trap(A40).

Wulff C(1), Wilson H, Rudge JS, Wiegand SJ, Lunn SF, Fraser HM.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council Human Reproductive Sciences Unit, Edinburgh,
Scotland, United Kingdom EH3 9ET. c.wulff@hrsu.mrc.ac.uk

The possibility of stimulating or inhibiting paracrine factors regulating
angiogenesis may lead to new approaches for the treatment of pathological
conditions of the female reproductive tract. We examined the effects of a
clinical candidate, a soluble truncated form of the Flt-1 receptor, vascular
endothelial growth factor trap(A40) (VEGF trap), in a primate model to determine 
its ability to prevent the onset of luteal angiogenesis or intervene with the
on-going process. Marmosets were treated from the day of ovulation until luteal
day 3 (prevention regimen) or on luteal day 3 for 1 day (intervention regimen).
Effects of VEGF inhibition were studied by obtaining a proliferation index using 
bromodeoxyuridine incorporation, quantifying endothelial cell area using CD31,
and assessing luteal function by plasma progesterone. After both treatments,
intense luteal endothelial proliferation was suppressed, a concomitant decrease
in endothelial cell area confirmed the inhibition of vascular development, and a 
marked fall in plasma progesterone levels showed that luteal function was
compromised. In situ hybridization was used to localize and quantify compensatory
effects on the expression of angiogenic genes. VEGF messenger ribonucleic acid
(mRNA) expression in luteal cells was increased, whereas expression of its
receptor, Flt, was decreased. Inhibition of VEGF resulted in localized increased 
expression of angiopoietin-2 mRNA and its receptor, Tie-2. The results show that 
the VEGF trap can prevent luteal angiogenesis and inhibit the established process
with resultant suppression of luteal function. Luteal Flt mRNA expression is
dependent upon VEGF, and VEGF inhibition results in abortive increases in
expression of VEGF, angiopoietin-2, and Tie-2.

DOI: 10.1210/jcem.86.7.7662 
PMID: 11443214  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3157. Chem Senses. 2001 Jun;26(5):449-58.

Female marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) can be identified from the chemical 
composition of their scent marks.

Smith TE(1), Tomlinson AJ, Mlotkiewicz JA, Abbott DH.

Author information: 
(1)School of Biology and Biochemistry, Queen's University of Belfast, Medical
Biology Centre, Belfast, UK. t.smith@qub.ac.uk

The present study analyzed 42 organic solvent extracts of scent mark pools from
five dominant female common marmosets by gas chromatography (GC) and combined GC 
and mass spectrometry. We determined whether there were qualitative or
quantitative differences between the chemical composition of scent marks from
individual females. Gas chromatography and mass spectral analysis detected the
same 162 chemicals in 86% (36/42) of scent mark pools from five dominant females.
This near identical chemical composition of scent marks suggested there were few,
if any, qualitative differences between the chemical composition of scent marks
from individual females. Instead, quantitative differences in scent may provide
the key factor distinguishing individual females. Using the relative
concentration of highly volatile chemicals detected by GC in scent marks, linear 
discriminant analysis classified scent mark pools to their correct donor
approximately 91% of the time. Such highly reliable statistical matching of scent
to donor suggested that each individual female common marmoset has a unique ratio
of highly volatile chemicals in their scent marks which may permit individual
identification of females from odors in their scent alone.

DOI: 10.1093/chemse/26.5.449 
PMID: 11418490  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

