

3157. Chem Senses. 2001 Jun;26(5):449-58.

Female marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) can be identified from the chemical 
composition of their scent marks.

Smith TE(1), Tomlinson AJ, Mlotkiewicz JA, Abbott DH.

Author information: 
(1)School of Biology and Biochemistry, Queen's University of Belfast, Medical
Biology Centre, Belfast, UK. t.smith@qub.ac.uk

The present study analyzed 42 organic solvent extracts of scent mark pools from
five dominant female common marmosets by gas chromatography (GC) and combined GC 
and mass spectrometry. We determined whether there were qualitative or
quantitative differences between the chemical composition of scent marks from
individual females. Gas chromatography and mass spectral analysis detected the
same 162 chemicals in 86% (36/42) of scent mark pools from five dominant females.
This near identical chemical composition of scent marks suggested there were few,
if any, qualitative differences between the chemical composition of scent marks
from individual females. Instead, quantitative differences in scent may provide
the key factor distinguishing individual females. Using the relative
concentration of highly volatile chemicals detected by GC in scent marks, linear 
discriminant analysis classified scent mark pools to their correct donor
approximately 91% of the time. Such highly reliable statistical matching of scent
to donor suggested that each individual female common marmoset has a unique ratio
of highly volatile chemicals in their scent marks which may permit individual
identification of females from odors in their scent alone.

DOI: 10.1093/chemse/26.5.449 
PMID: 11418490  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3158. Vis Neurosci. 2001 Mar-Apr;18(2):209-18.

Long-range interactions in the lateral geniculate nucleus of the New-World
monkey, Callithrix jacchus.

Felisberti F(1), Derrington AM.

Author information: 
(1)Applied Vision Research Centre, Department of Optometry & Visual Science, City
University, London, UK. F.Felisberti@city.ac.uk

Visual stimulation of zones extending beyond the classical receptive field can
modulate the contrast gain of neurons in the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) of 
cats, but little is known about the effect of extra-classical visual stimulation 
on the LGN of primates. Hence, we compare the effect of long-range interactions
in parvocellular and magnocellular LGN layers of the marmoset monkey Callithrix
jacchus using optimal, incremental spots flashed on the classical receptive field
either alone or simultaneously with the shift of a grating (98% contrast; 0.1
cycles/deg) confined to a peripheral annulus (radii: 5-15 deg). The contrast
required to drive the response halfway to saturation (c50) of most LGN neurons
was raised by remote pattern shifts. The c50 ratio [(shift+spot)/spot] in
OFF-center magnocellular neurons was significantly higher than in OFF-center
parvocellular neurons. OFF-center magnocellular neurons closer to the fovea (<10 
deg eccentricity) tended to have a higher c50 ratio than in more peripheral
neurons. A significant drop in visual sensitivity to 25% contrast spots was
observed during remote motion: d' fell from 1.8 to 1.4 in parvocellular neurons
and from 2.2 to 1.7 in magnocellular neurons. Such long-range interactions
produce a reduction in visual sensitivity by changing the gain of the geniculate 
relay and point to an inhibitory, motion-sensitive extra-classical receptive
field in both parvocellular and magnocellular pathways, which may be involved in 
saccadic suppression and attentional mechanisms in early vision.

DOI: 10.1017/s0952523801182064 
PMID: 11417796  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

