

3158. Vis Neurosci. 2001 Mar-Apr;18(2):209-18.

Long-range interactions in the lateral geniculate nucleus of the New-World
monkey, Callithrix jacchus.

Felisberti F(1), Derrington AM.

Author information: 
(1)Applied Vision Research Centre, Department of Optometry & Visual Science, City
University, London, UK. F.Felisberti@city.ac.uk

Visual stimulation of zones extending beyond the classical receptive field can
modulate the contrast gain of neurons in the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) of 
cats, but little is known about the effect of extra-classical visual stimulation 
on the LGN of primates. Hence, we compare the effect of long-range interactions
in parvocellular and magnocellular LGN layers of the marmoset monkey Callithrix
jacchus using optimal, incremental spots flashed on the classical receptive field
either alone or simultaneously with the shift of a grating (98% contrast; 0.1
cycles/deg) confined to a peripheral annulus (radii: 5-15 deg). The contrast
required to drive the response halfway to saturation (c50) of most LGN neurons
was raised by remote pattern shifts. The c50 ratio [(shift+spot)/spot] in
OFF-center magnocellular neurons was significantly higher than in OFF-center
parvocellular neurons. OFF-center magnocellular neurons closer to the fovea (<10 
deg eccentricity) tended to have a higher c50 ratio than in more peripheral
neurons. A significant drop in visual sensitivity to 25% contrast spots was
observed during remote motion: d' fell from 1.8 to 1.4 in parvocellular neurons
and from 2.2 to 1.7 in magnocellular neurons. Such long-range interactions
produce a reduction in visual sensitivity by changing the gain of the geniculate 
relay and point to an inhibitory, motion-sensitive extra-classical receptive
field in both parvocellular and magnocellular pathways, which may be involved in 
saccadic suppression and attentional mechanisms in early vision.

DOI: 10.1017/s0952523801182064 
PMID: 11417796  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3159. Endocrinology. 2001 Jul;142(7):3244-54.

Angiogenesis during follicular development in the primate and its inhibition by
treatment with truncated Flt-1-Fc (vascular endothelial growth factor Trap(A40)).

Wulff C(1), Wiegand SJ, Saunders PT, Scobie GA, Fraser HM.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council, Human Reproductive Sciences Unit, EH3 9ET Edinburgh,
United Kingdom. cwulff@hrsu.mrc.ac.uk

The aims of this study were to 1) quantify changes in angiogenesis during
follicular growth in a primate model; 2) investigate the molecular regulation
using in situ hybridization of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), its
receptor, Flt-1, the angiopoietins (Ang-1 and Ang-2), and their receptor, Tie-2; 
3) elucidate the role of VEGF in follicular angiogenesis by blocking its action
by treatment with a soluble truncated form of the Flt-1 receptor, (VEGF
Trap(A40)). Changes in angiogenesis were quantified using bromodeoxyuridine to
obtain a proliferation index, and CD31 immunocytochemistry to visualize
endothelial cell area. Percentage of proliferating endothelial cells was
calculated by double labeling for bromodeoxyuridine and CD31. Vascularization was
first observed in follicles containing four granulosa cell layers. A significant 
increase in proliferation in the thecal layer was observed from the early to late
secondary stage, and dual staining showed that 25% of proliferating cells were of
endothelial cell origin. VEGF messenger RNA (mRNA) was expressed in granulosa
cells with an increase of grain density from late secondary to tertiary
follicles. Ang-1 was weakly expressed in the theca of tertiary follicles. Ang-2
mRNA was not detected in any follicles. The mRNA for the Flt-1 and Tie-2
receptors was localized in endothelial cells of the theca. Unexpectedly, Tie-2
mRNA was also found in granulosa cells of early follicular stages and its
translation was confirmed by immunocytochemistry. VEGF trap treatment for 3 days 
resulted in an 87% decrease of proliferation in the theca of secondary and
tertiary follicles, a reduction in endothelial cell area and a marked decline in 
Flt-1 mRNA expression. Granulosa cell proliferation also decreased. These results
show that onset and establishment of the follicle vasculature takes place early
during follicular development. The ability of VEGF trap treatment to severely
restrict follicular angiogenesis establishes that VEGF is the major regulator of 
this process in the primate ovary.

DOI: 10.1210/endo.142.7.8258 
PMID: 11416048  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

