

3165. J Physiol. 2001 Jun 1;533(Pt 2):519-35.

Spatial properties of koniocellular cells in the lateral geniculate nucleus of
the marmoset Callithrix jacchus.

White AJ(1), Solomon SG, Martin PR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Institute for Biomedical Research, University of 
Sydney, NSW 2006, Australia.

1. The receptive field dimensions, contrast sensitivity and linearity of spatial 
summation of koniocellular (KC), parvocellular (PC) and magnocellular (MC) cells 
in the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) of 11 adult marmosets were measured using
achromatic sinusoidal gratings. 2. The receptive field centre diameter of cells
in each (PC, KC and MC) class increases with distance from the fovea. There is
substantial overlap in centre size between the three cell classes at any
eccentricity, but the PC cells have, on average, the smallest centres and the KC 
cells have the largest. Some PC and KC cells did not respond at all to the
grating stimulus. 3. The contrast sensitivity of the receptive field centre
mechanism in KC cells decreases in proportion to the centre area. A similar trend
was seen for the surround mechanism. These characteristics are common to PC and
MC cells, suggesting that they originate at an early stage of visual processing
in the retina. 4. The KC cells showed, in general, lower peak evoked discharge
rates than PC or MC cells. The spontaneous discharge rate of KC cells was lower
than that of PC cells and similar to that of MC cells. 5. The majority of cells
in all divisions of the LGN show linear spatial summation. A few cells did show
non-linear spatial summation; these cells were predominantly located in the MC
and ventral KC layers. 6. The ventral KC layers below and between the MC layers
contain cells with larger and more transiently responding receptive fields than
cells in the more dorsal KC layers. 7. We conclude that many of the
contrast-dependent spatial properties of cells in the marmoset LGN are common to 
PC, MC and KC cells. The main difference between KC cells and the other two
classes is that there is more variability in their response properties, and they 
are less responsive to high spatial frequencies.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1469-7793.2001.0519a.x 
PMCID: PMC2278639
PMID: 11389209  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3166. J Neurophysiol. 2001 Jun;85(6):2364-80.

Neural representations of temporally asymmetric stimuli in the auditory cortex of
awake primates.

Lu T(1), Liang L, Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.

The representation of rapid acoustic transients by the auditory cortex is a
fundamental issue that is still unresolved. Auditory cortical neurons have been
shown to be limited in their stimulus-synchronized responses, yet the perceptual 
performances of humans and animals in discriminating temporal variations in
complex sounds are better than what existing neurophysiological data would
predict. This study investigated the neural representation of temporally
asymmetric stimuli in the primary auditory cortex of awake marmoset monkeys. The 
stimuli, ramped and damped sinusoids, were systematically manipulated (by means
of half-life of the exponential envelope) within a cortical neuron's presumed
temporal integration window. The main findings of this study are as follows: 1)
temporal asymmetry in ramped and damped sinusoids with a short period (25 ms) was
clearly reflected by average discharge rate but not necessarily by temporal
discharge patterns of auditory cortical neurons. There was considerable response 
specificity to these stimuli such that some neurons were strongly responsive to a
ramped sinusoid but almost completely unresponsive to its damped counterpart or
vice versa. Of 181 neurons studied, 140 (77%) showed significant response
asymmetry in at least one of the tested half-life values of the exponential
envelope. Forty-six neurons showed significant response asymmetry over all
half-lives tested. Sustained firing, commonly observed under awake conditions,
contributed to greater response asymmetry than that of onset responses in many
neurons. 2) A greater proportion of the neurons (32/46) that exhibited
significant overall response asymmetry showed stronger responses to the ramped
sinusoids than to the damped sinusoids, possibly contributing to the difference
in the perceived loudness between these two classes of sounds. 3) The asymmetry
preference of a neuron to ramped or damped sinusoids did not appear to be
correlated with its characteristic frequency or minimum response latency,
suggesting that this is a general phenomenon that exists across populations of
cortical neurons. Moreover, the intensity of the stimuli did not have significant
effects on the measure of the asymmetry preference based on discharge rate. 4) A 
population measure of response preference, based on discharge rate, of cortical
neurons to the temporally asymmetric stimuli was qualitatively similar to the
performance of human listeners in discriminating ramped versus damped sinusoids
at different half-life values. These findings suggest that rapid acoustic
transients embedded in complex sounds can be represented by discharge rates of
cortical neurons instead of or in the absence of stimulus-synchronized
discharges.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.2001.85.6.2364 
PMID: 11387383  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

