

3166. J Neurophysiol. 2001 Jun;85(6):2364-80.

Neural representations of temporally asymmetric stimuli in the auditory cortex of
awake primates.

Lu T(1), Liang L, Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.

The representation of rapid acoustic transients by the auditory cortex is a
fundamental issue that is still unresolved. Auditory cortical neurons have been
shown to be limited in their stimulus-synchronized responses, yet the perceptual 
performances of humans and animals in discriminating temporal variations in
complex sounds are better than what existing neurophysiological data would
predict. This study investigated the neural representation of temporally
asymmetric stimuli in the primary auditory cortex of awake marmoset monkeys. The 
stimuli, ramped and damped sinusoids, were systematically manipulated (by means
of half-life of the exponential envelope) within a cortical neuron's presumed
temporal integration window. The main findings of this study are as follows: 1)
temporal asymmetry in ramped and damped sinusoids with a short period (25 ms) was
clearly reflected by average discharge rate but not necessarily by temporal
discharge patterns of auditory cortical neurons. There was considerable response 
specificity to these stimuli such that some neurons were strongly responsive to a
ramped sinusoid but almost completely unresponsive to its damped counterpart or
vice versa. Of 181 neurons studied, 140 (77%) showed significant response
asymmetry in at least one of the tested half-life values of the exponential
envelope. Forty-six neurons showed significant response asymmetry over all
half-lives tested. Sustained firing, commonly observed under awake conditions,
contributed to greater response asymmetry than that of onset responses in many
neurons. 2) A greater proportion of the neurons (32/46) that exhibited
significant overall response asymmetry showed stronger responses to the ramped
sinusoids than to the damped sinusoids, possibly contributing to the difference
in the perceived loudness between these two classes of sounds. 3) The asymmetry
preference of a neuron to ramped or damped sinusoids did not appear to be
correlated with its characteristic frequency or minimum response latency,
suggesting that this is a general phenomenon that exists across populations of
cortical neurons. Moreover, the intensity of the stimuli did not have significant
effects on the measure of the asymmetry preference based on discharge rate. 4) A 
population measure of response preference, based on discharge rate, of cortical
neurons to the temporally asymmetric stimuli was qualitatively similar to the
performance of human listeners in discriminating ramped versus damped sinusoids
at different half-life values. These findings suggest that rapid acoustic
transients embedded in complex sounds can be represented by discharge rates of
cortical neurons instead of or in the absence of stimulus-synchronized
discharges.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.2001.85.6.2364 
PMID: 11387383  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3167. J Chem Ecol. 2001 Jan;27(1):93-107.

Chemical ecological characteristics of herbivory of Siparuna guianensis seeds by 
buffy-headed marmosets (Callithrix flaviceps) in the Atlantic Forest of
southeastern Brazil.

Simas NK(1), Ferrari SF, Pereira SN, Leitão GG.

Author information: 
(1)Núcleo de Pesquisas de Produtos Naturais Universidade Federal do Rio de
Janeiro Bloco H, CCS, Ilha do Fundão 21.941-590, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.

The buffy-headed marmoset (Callithrix flaviceps) is apparently the only
predispersal herbivore of the seeds of Siparuna guianensis at the Caratinga
Biological Station in southeastern Brazil. Both the fruit receptacles and the
frutioles (seeds) of S. guianensis are relatively rich in nutrients such as
carbohydrates, proteins, and lipids, but the receptacles contain high
concentrations of benzylisoquinoline alkaloids. The latter presumably act as a
qualitative chemical defense, impeding the access of potential predators to the
alkaloid-poor frutioles. However, on ripening, the receptacle splits open,
exposing the frutioles, which enables C. flaviceps to avoid the plant's chemical 
defenses effectively. Taking care to avoid contact with the receptacle, the
marmosets pluck out the frutioles and ingest the seeds. Qualitative and
quantitative changes (in particular a significant reduction in daily ranging) in 
the marmosets' behavior during the period when S. guianensis frutioles were
accessible indicate that this was a preferred plant resource. This is the first
record of the consumption of S. guianensis seeds by callitrichine monkeys (which 
are not known to be systematic seed eaters), despite the fact that both are
widely distributed in the Neotropics. It is thus possible that the behavioral
strategy observed here is a unique phenomenon resulting from a specific
combination of factors, including the abundance of S. guianensis within the study
area. The lack of other records may nevertheless be a result of insufficient
sampling effort, in which case, the feeding strategies of callitrichines may have
an important influence on the reproductive biology of S. guianensis in many
areas.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1005672017673 
PMID: 11382070  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

