

3169. Am J Primatol. 2001 Jun;54(2):119-26.

Abundance, diversity, and patterns of distribution of primates on the Tapiche
River in Amazonian Peru.

Bennett CL(1), Leonard S, Carter S.

Author information: 
(1)Dallas Zoo, Dallas, Texas 75203, USA. dzconsrc@airmail.net

This work presents data on the relative diversity, abundance, and distribution
patterns of primates in a 20 km2 area of the Tapiche River in the Peruvian
Amazon. Population data were collected while the study area was both inundated
and dry (March to September 1997) using conventional line-transect census
techniques. Survey results reflected the presence of 11 primate species, but
population parameters on only eight of the species will be presented, including
saddleback tamarins (Saguinus fuscicollis), Bolivian squirrel monkeys (Saimiri
boliviensis), brown capuchins (Cebus apella), white-fronted capuchins (Cebus
albifrons), monk sakis (Pithecia monachus), red titi monkeys (Callicebus
cupreus), red uakaris (Cacajao calvus), and red howler monkeys (Alouatta
seniculus). Woolly monkeys (Lagothrix lagotricha), night monkeys (Aotus
nancymaae), and pygmy marmosets (Callithrix pygmaea) were also seen in the area. 
The data for the smaller-bodied primates is similar to that reported almost 18
years earlier, but the data for the larger-bodied primates reflect a loss in the 
number of animals present in the area. Pressure from hunters and the timber
industry may account for declining numbers of large-bodied primates, while it
appears that natural features peculiar to the conservation area contribute to the
patchy pattern of distribution.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.1017 
PMID: 11376449  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3170. Eur J Neurosci. 2001 May;13(9):1797-808.

Dissociable contributions of the orbitofrontal and lateral prefrontal cortex of
the marmoset to performance on a detour reaching task.

Wallis JD(1), Dias R, Robbins TW, Roberts AC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, University of Cambridge, Downing Street, Cambridge, CB2
3DY, UK.

To gain insight into the nature and neural specificity of the relationship
between simple problem solving, inhibitory control and prefrontal cortex,
comparison of the effects of excitotoxic lesions of the orbitofrontal and lateral
prefrontal cortex were examined on the performance of common marmosets on a
detour reaching task. Monkeys were required to inhibit reaching directly for food
reward in a transparent box and instead make a detour reach around to the side of
the box either having had (i) no prior experience on the task (experiment 1) or
(ii) previous experience in reaching around the sides of an opaque box
(experiment 2). Whilst monkeys with orbitofrontal lesions had difficulty in
inhibiting direct reaches to visible food reward (experiment 1), they could
resist this prepotent response tendency following extensive prior experience of
detour reaching with an opaque box (experiment 2). In marked contrast, monkeys
with lateral prefrontal lesions exhibited no difficulty in inhibiting reaching to
visible food reward or acquiring detour reaching per se (experiment 1). However, 
having been given the opportunity to acquire an efficient detour reaching
strategy to hidden food reward these lateral prefrontal lesioned monkeys were
impaired at transferring this strategy to the new context in which the food
reward was made visible (experiment 2). This double dissociation between the
effects of orbitofrontal and lateral prefrontal lesions on detour reaching
provides evidence for a clear distinction in the level of control over responding
exerted by the orbitofrontal and lateral prefrontal cortex, consistent with
hierarchical ordering of response control processes within prefrontal cortex.

DOI: 10.1046/j.0953-816x.2001.01546.x 
PMID: 11359531  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

