

3170. Eur J Neurosci. 2001 May;13(9):1797-808.

Dissociable contributions of the orbitofrontal and lateral prefrontal cortex of
the marmoset to performance on a detour reaching task.

Wallis JD(1), Dias R, Robbins TW, Roberts AC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, University of Cambridge, Downing Street, Cambridge, CB2
3DY, UK.

To gain insight into the nature and neural specificity of the relationship
between simple problem solving, inhibitory control and prefrontal cortex,
comparison of the effects of excitotoxic lesions of the orbitofrontal and lateral
prefrontal cortex were examined on the performance of common marmosets on a
detour reaching task. Monkeys were required to inhibit reaching directly for food
reward in a transparent box and instead make a detour reach around to the side of
the box either having had (i) no prior experience on the task (experiment 1) or
(ii) previous experience in reaching around the sides of an opaque box
(experiment 2). Whilst monkeys with orbitofrontal lesions had difficulty in
inhibiting direct reaches to visible food reward (experiment 1), they could
resist this prepotent response tendency following extensive prior experience of
detour reaching with an opaque box (experiment 2). In marked contrast, monkeys
with lateral prefrontal lesions exhibited no difficulty in inhibiting reaching to
visible food reward or acquiring detour reaching per se (experiment 1). However, 
having been given the opportunity to acquire an efficient detour reaching
strategy to hidden food reward these lateral prefrontal lesioned monkeys were
impaired at transferring this strategy to the new context in which the food
reward was made visible (experiment 2). This double dissociation between the
effects of orbitofrontal and lateral prefrontal lesions on detour reaching
provides evidence for a clear distinction in the level of control over responding
exerted by the orbitofrontal and lateral prefrontal cortex, consistent with
hierarchical ordering of response control processes within prefrontal cortex.

DOI: 10.1046/j.0953-816x.2001.01546.x 
PMID: 11359531  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3171. Rev Saude Publica. 2001 Apr;35(2):119-23.

[Ilheus arbovirus in wild birds (Sporophila caerulescens and Molothrus
bonariensis)].

[Article in Portuguese]

Pereira LE(1), Suzuki A, Coimbra TL, de Souza RP, Chamelet EL.

Author information: 
(1)Seção de Vírus Transmitidos por Artrópodos, Instituto Adolfo Lutz, São Paulo, 
SP, Brasil. lupereira@ial.sp.gov.br

OBJECTIVE: To report the first Ilheus arboviruses isolated from wild birds and
analyze its public health impact.
METHODS: Wild birds and mammals were captured using mist nets and Tomahawk traps,
respectively. Blood samples were drawn from these animals and inoculated
intracerebrally in Swiss suckling mice found in the Parque Ecológico do Tietê,
Brazil. The isolates were identified by serological tests, such as
hemagglutination, hemagglutination inhibition, complement fixation and
neutralization. Besides virus isolation, serum samples were also tested for the
presence of hemagglutination inhibition antibodies.
RESULTS: Two strains of Ilheus virus were isolated from the bird species
Sporophila caerulescens and Molothrus bonariensis. Specific antibodies to Ilheus 
virus were detected in serum samples of some birds (Columbina talpacoti, Geopelia
cuneata, Sicalis flaveola and Molothrus bonariensis), marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus and Callithrix penicillata) and coati (Nasua nasua).
CONCLUSIONS: Virus isolation and detection of specific antibodies in serum
samples of local, migratory and captive birds, captive marmosets and wild coati
corroborate the circulation of Ilheus virus in the Parque Ecológico do Tietê. The
migrating behavior of some species of wild birds, like Sporophila caerulescens,
enables the virus spread to other regions. Taking into consideration its human
pathogenicity and the presence of the virus in this area, local authorities
should be aware of the risk of infecting the local community.

DOI: 10.1590/s0034-89102001000200003 
PMID: 11359196  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

