

3174. J Neurocytol. 2000 Sep;29(9):665-78.

Concentration of astrocytic filaments at the retinal optic nerve junction is
coincident with the absence of intra-retinal myelination: comparative and
developmental evidence.

Morcos Y(1), Chan-Ling T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy and Histology, Institute for Biomedical Research,
University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW 2006, Australia.

The structure of the lamina cribrosa (LC) and astrocytic density were examined in
various species with and without intra-retinal myelination. Sections of optic
nerve from various species were stained with Milligan's trichrome or antibodies
to glial fibrillary acidic protein, myelin basic protein (MBP) and antibody O4.
Marmoset, flying fox, cat, and sheep, which lack intraretinal myelination, were
shown to possess a well-developed LC as well as a marked concentration of
astrocytic filaments distal to the LC. Rat and mouse, which lack intraretinal
myelination, lacked a well-developed LC but exhibited a marked concentration of
astrocytic filaments in this region. Rabbit and chicken, which exhibit
intraretinal myelination, lacked both a well-developed LC and a concentration of 
astrocytes at the retinal optic nerve junction (ROJ). A marked concentration of
astrocytes at the ROJ of human fetuses was also apparent at 13 weeks of
gestation, prior to myelination of the optic nerve; in contrast, the LC was not
fully developed even at birth. This concentration of astrocytes was located
distal to O4 and MBP immunoreactivity in human optic nerve, and coincided with
the site of initial myelination of ganglion cell axons in marmoset and rat.
Myelination proceeded from the chiasm towards the retinal end of the human optic 
nerve. Moreover, the outer limit of oligodendrocyte precursor cells (OPC)
migration into the rabbit retina was restricted by the outer limit of astrocyte
spread. These observations indicate that a concentration of astrocytic filaments 
at the ROJ is coincident with the absence of intraretinal myelination.
Differential expression of tenascin-C by astrocytes at the ROJ appears to
contribute to the molecular barrier to OPC migration (see Bartsch et al., 1994), 
while expression of the homedomain protein Vax 1 by glial cells at the optic
nerve head appears to inhibit migration of retinal pigment epithelial cells into 
the optic nerve (see Bertuzzi et al., 1999). These observations combined with our
present comparative and developmental data lead us to suggest that the astrocytes
at the ROJ serve to regulate cellular traffic into and out of the retina.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1010835404754 
PMID: 11353290  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3175. J Neurophysiol. 2001 May;85(5):1823-35.

Hierarchical equivalence of somatosensory areas I and II for tactile processing
in the cerebral cortex of the marmoset monkey.

Zhang HQ(1), Zachariah MK, Coleman GT, Rowe MJ.

Author information: 
(1)School of Physiology and Pharmacology, The University of New South Wales,
Sydney, NSW 2052, Australia.

Responsiveness of the first somatosensory area (SI) of the cerebral cortex was
investigated in the marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus) in association with
cooling-induced, reversible inactivation of the second somatosensory area, SII.
The aim was to determine whether SI responsiveness to peripheral tactile
stimulation depends on SII and therefore whether SI and SII in the marmoset
occupy hierarchically equivalent positions in a parallel organizational scheme
for thalamocortical tactile processing as appears to be the case in nonprimate
mammals. Inactivation of SII was achieved when the temperature over SII was
lowered to < or =12 degrees C, as indicated by abolition of the SII-evoked
potentials generated by brief tap stimuli to the hand or foot, and by abolition
of tactile responses in single SII neurons located at the margin beneath the
block. The effect of SII inactivation on SI-evoked potentials was examined in 16 
experiments by simultaneous recording of the SI- and SII-evoked potentials.
SI-evoked potentials were never abolished and remained unaffected in 11 cases. In
three experiments there was a small reduction in amplitude and inconsistent
effects in the remaining two. Responsiveness to controlled tactile stimuli was
examined quantitatively in 31 individual SI neurons of different functional
classes before, during, and after the inactivation of SII. Tactile responsiveness
in individual SI neurons was never abolished by SII inactivation, remaining
unchanged in 20 neurons (65%) while undergoing some reduction in the remaining 11
SI neurons (35%). This reduction of tactile responsiveness in one-third of SI
neurons is most likely attributable to a removal of a facilitatory influence
emanating from SII, based on the observation that background activity of the
affected neurons was also reduced. Furthermore, phase locking of SI responses to 
vibrotactile stimulation was unchanged when SII was inactivated. The retention of
responsiveness in SI neurons when SII was inactivated by cooling in the marmoset 
demonstrates that tactile inputs can reach SI without traversing an indirect,
serially organized path through SII. The present results, together with our
previous observations that responsiveness in the majority of SII neurons survived
SI inactivation, demonstrate that there is a parallel organization of the SI and 
SII areas for tactile processing in the marmoset monkey and that SI and SII
occupy hierarchically equivalent positions in a parallel processing network.
There is therefore no longer justification for the view that there are
fundamental differences in the organization of thalamocortical tactile processing
for SI and SII between simian primates, in general, and other mammals.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.2001.85.5.1823 
PMID: 11352999  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

