

3175. J Neurophysiol. 2001 May;85(5):1823-35.

Hierarchical equivalence of somatosensory areas I and II for tactile processing
in the cerebral cortex of the marmoset monkey.

Zhang HQ(1), Zachariah MK, Coleman GT, Rowe MJ.

Author information: 
(1)School of Physiology and Pharmacology, The University of New South Wales,
Sydney, NSW 2052, Australia.

Responsiveness of the first somatosensory area (SI) of the cerebral cortex was
investigated in the marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus) in association with
cooling-induced, reversible inactivation of the second somatosensory area, SII.
The aim was to determine whether SI responsiveness to peripheral tactile
stimulation depends on SII and therefore whether SI and SII in the marmoset
occupy hierarchically equivalent positions in a parallel organizational scheme
for thalamocortical tactile processing as appears to be the case in nonprimate
mammals. Inactivation of SII was achieved when the temperature over SII was
lowered to < or =12 degrees C, as indicated by abolition of the SII-evoked
potentials generated by brief tap stimuli to the hand or foot, and by abolition
of tactile responses in single SII neurons located at the margin beneath the
block. The effect of SII inactivation on SI-evoked potentials was examined in 16 
experiments by simultaneous recording of the SI- and SII-evoked potentials.
SI-evoked potentials were never abolished and remained unaffected in 11 cases. In
three experiments there was a small reduction in amplitude and inconsistent
effects in the remaining two. Responsiveness to controlled tactile stimuli was
examined quantitatively in 31 individual SI neurons of different functional
classes before, during, and after the inactivation of SII. Tactile responsiveness
in individual SI neurons was never abolished by SII inactivation, remaining
unchanged in 20 neurons (65%) while undergoing some reduction in the remaining 11
SI neurons (35%). This reduction of tactile responsiveness in one-third of SI
neurons is most likely attributable to a removal of a facilitatory influence
emanating from SII, based on the observation that background activity of the
affected neurons was also reduced. Furthermore, phase locking of SI responses to 
vibrotactile stimulation was unchanged when SII was inactivated. The retention of
responsiveness in SI neurons when SII was inactivated by cooling in the marmoset 
demonstrates that tactile inputs can reach SI without traversing an indirect,
serially organized path through SII. The present results, together with our
previous observations that responsiveness in the majority of SII neurons survived
SI inactivation, demonstrate that there is a parallel organization of the SI and 
SII areas for tactile processing in the marmoset monkey and that SI and SII
occupy hierarchically equivalent positions in a parallel processing network.
There is therefore no longer justification for the view that there are
fundamental differences in the organization of thalamocortical tactile processing
for SI and SII between simian primates, in general, and other mammals.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.2001.85.5.1823 
PMID: 11352999  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3176. J Neurophysiol. 2001 May;85(5):1805-22.

Functional characteristics of the parallel SI- and SII-projecting neurons of the 
thalamic ventral posterior nucleus in the marmoset.

Zhang HQ(1), Murray GM, Coleman GT, Turman AB, Zhang SP, Rowe MJ.

Author information: 
(1)School of Physiology and Pharmacology, The University of New South Wales,
Sydney, NSW 2052, Australia.

The functional organization of the primate somatosensory system at
thalamocortical levels has been a matter of controversy, in particular, over the 
extent to which the primary and secondary somatosensory cortical areas, SI and
SII, are organized in parallel or serial neural networks for the processing of
tactile information. This issue was investigated for the marmoset monkey by
recording from 55 single tactile-sensitive neurons in the lateral division of the
ventral posterior nucleus of the thalamus (VPL) with a projection to either SI or
SII, identified with the use of the antidromic collision technique. Neurons
activated from the hand and distal forearm were classified according to their
peripheral source of input and characterized in terms of their functional
capacities to determine whether the direct thalamic input can account for tactile
processing in both SI and SII. Both the SI- and SII-projecting samples contained 
a slowly adapting (SA) class of neurons, sensitive to static skin displacement,
and purely dynamically sensitive tactile neurons that could be subdivided into
two classes. One was most sensitive to high-frequency (> or =100 Hz) cutaneous
vibration whose input appeared to be derived from Pacinian sources, while the
other was sensitive to lower frequency vibration (< or =100 Hz) or trains of
rectangular mechanical pulse stimuli, that appeared to receive its input from
rapidly adapting (RA) afferent fibers presumed to be associated with intradermal 
tactile receptors. There appeared to be no systematic differences in functional
capacities between SI- and SII-projecting neurons of each of these three classes,
based on receptive field characteristics, on the form of stimulus-response
relations, and on measures derived from these relations. These measures included 
threshold and responsiveness values, bandwidths of vibrational sensitivity, and
the capacity for responding to cutaneous vibrotactile stimuli with phase-locked, 
temporally patterned impulse activity. The analysis indicates that low-threshold,
high-acuity tactile information is conveyed directly to both SI and SII from
overlapping regions within the thalamic VP nucleus. This direct confirmation of a
parallel functional projection to both SI and SII in the marmoset is consistent
with our separate studies at the cortical level that demonstrate first, that
tactile responsiveness in SII largely survives the SI inactivation and second,
that SI responsiveness is largely independent of SII. It therefore reinforces the
evidence that SI and SII occupy a hierarchically equivalent network for tactile
processing.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.2001.85.5.1805 
PMID: 11352998  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

