

3178. Biomed Sci Instrum. 2001;37:119-24.

Development of a wireless system for auditory neuroscience.

Lukes AJ(1), Lear AT, Snider RK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Montana State University,
Bozeman, MT 59717, USA.

In order to study how the auditory cortex extracts communication sounds in a
realistic acoustic environment, a wireless system is being developed that will
transmit acoustic as well as neural signals. The miniature transmitter will be
capable of transmitting two acoustic signals with 37.5 KHz bandwidths (75 KHz
sample rate) and 56 neural signals with bandwidths of 9.375 KHz (18.75 KHz sample
rate). These signals will be time-division multiplexed into one high bandwidth
signal with a 1.2 MHz sample rate. This high bandwidth signal will then be
frequency modulated onto a 2.4 GHz carrier, which resides in the industrial,
scientic, and medical (ISM) band that is designed for low-power short-range
wireless applications. On the receiver side, the signal will be demodulated from 
the 2.4 GHz carrier and then digitized by an analog-to-digital (A/D) converter.
The acoustic and neural signals will be digitally demultiplexed from the
multiplexed signal into their respective channels. Oversampling (20 MHz) will
allow the reconstruction of the multiplexing clock by a digital signal processor 
(DSP) that will perform frame and bit synchronization. A frame is a subset of the
signal that contains all the channels and several channels tied high and low will
signal the start of a frame. This technological development will bring two
benefits to auditory neuroscience. It will allow simultaneous recording of many
neurons that will permit studies of population codes. It will also allow neural
functions to be determined in higher auditory areas by correlating neural and
acoustic signals without apriori knowledge of the necessary stimuli.


PMID: 11347373  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3179. Physiol Behav. 2001 Apr;72(5):713-20.

Prolactin levels are elevated after infant carrying in parentally inexperienced
common marmosets.

Roberts RL(1), Jenkins KT, Lawler T, Wegner FH, Norcross JL, Bernhards DE, Newman
JD.

Author information: 
(1)Unit on Developmental Neuroethology, Laboratory of Comparative Ethology,
National Institute of Child Health and Human Development, NIH Animal Center, P.O.
Box 529, Poolesville, MD 20837, USA. lr123@nih.gov

Alloparental behavior (parental behavior directed to nondescendant young) is
pervasive among human cultures but rare among other mammals. New World primates
of the family Callitrichidae, including common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus
jacchus), dwell in large families and many family members carry and/or provision 
infants. This study experimentally characterized alloparenting in common
marmosets by measuring infant retrieval and carrying outside of the context of
the family group. Prolactin was measured in samples collected before and after
infant exposure to determine whether elevated prolactin levels were predictive of
alloparental responsiveness. Seventeen nonbreeding, parentally inexperienced,
singly or peer-housed common marmosets (10 females, 7 males, 6-66 months of age) 
were tested repeatedly in an infant retrieval paradigm. Infant retrieval was
shown by 5 out of 17 monkeys (29%) in their first test. The rate of retrieval
increased to 10 monkeys (59%) by the fourth test. No significant differences in
age, sex, or housing condition existed between monkeys that retrieved infants and
those not retrieving. Prolactin concentrations were significantly elevated in
serum obtained after testing only in monkeys that retrieved infants. Prolactin
levels after infant exposure were positively related to carrying duration. A
separate experiment verified that neither prolactin nor cortisol was
significantly elevated in response to prolonged handling. Cortisol levels were
inversely proportional to handling time. Prolactin levels were not significantly 
related to handling time. Our results indicate that alloparental behavior is
expressed at high rates after minimal infant experience, and prolactin levels
rise concomitantly with the expression of alloparental behavior in this species.

DOI: 10.1016/s0031-9384(01)00430-9 
PMID: 11337003  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

