

3182. Lab Anim. 2001 Apr;35(2):117-30.

The selection of marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) in pharmaceutical
toxicology.

Smith D(1), Trennery P, Farningham D, Klapwijk J.

Author information: 
(1)Safety Assessment UK, AstraZeneca, Macclesfield, Cheshire.

Prior to controlled clinical trials in human volunteers or patients it is
required that novel pharmaceuticals are evaluated for pre-clinical safety in a
rodent and a non-rodent ('second') species. In most cases the rodent species used
has been the rat and the second species has been the dog or macaque (usually
cynomolgus or rhesus) monkey. However, there is an increasing trend within the
United Kingdom (UK) pharmaceutical industry to use the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus) for pre-clinical toxicology programmes. This paper examines 
the practicality of using the common marmoset (henceforth referred to as 'the
marmoset') in toxicological testing and reviews metabolic and pharmacodynamic
similarities between this species and humans. It then discusses some of the
advantages and disadvantages of the use of this species when compared with two
other alternatives to the dog and macaque, namely the ferret and minipig. In
particular, the marmoset has clear advantages over the macaque in terms of animal
welfare and practicality. There is regulatory acceptance of this species for
Investigational New Drug (IND), Clinical Trial Exemption (CTX), New Drug
Application (NDA) and Marketing Authorization Application (MAA) registrations.
Whilst the dog is likely to be maintained as the primary non-rodent species in
toxicology, the marmoset has been, and will likely continue to be, adopted as an 
additional non-rodent species in pre-clinical toxicology programmes where
appropriate.

DOI: 10.1258/0023677011911444 
PMID: 11315160  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3183. Exp Neurol. 2001 May;169(1):122-34.

Coadministration of (-)-OSU6162 with l-DOPA normalizes preproenkephalin mRNA
expression in the sensorimotor striatum of primates with unilateral 6-OHDA
lesions.

Pirker W(1), Tedroff J, Pontén H, Gunne L, Andrén PE, Hurd YL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Neuroscience, Karolinska Hospital, Stockholm, S-17176, 
Sweden.

The substituted phenylpiperidine (-)-OSU6162 is a novel modulator of the
dopaminergic systems with low affinity for dopamine D(2) receptors and potent
normalizing effects on l-DOPA-induced dyskinesias. We studied the effects of
coadministration of (-)-OSU6162 with l-DOPA on the regulation of striatal
preproenkephalin (PPE) and prodynorphin (PDyn) mRNA expression in the primate
brain by in situ hybridization histochemistry. Common marmoset monkeys sustaining
unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesions of the nigrostriatal pathway received
l-DOPA/carbidopa, l-DOPA/carbidopa plus (-)-OSU6162, or vehicle over 14 days. In 
vehicle-treated animals, PPE mRNA levels were markedly increased in the
sensorimotor territory of the lesioned striatum. By contrast, a rather uniform
lesion-induced reduction of PDyn mRNA levels was found in the vehicle group.
Subchronic l-DOPA treatment induced a further increase in PPE mRNA expression in 
a number of sensorimotor and associative subregions of the denervated striatum.
Coadministration of (-)-OSU6162 with l-DOPA partially reversed the lesion- and
l-DOPA-induced elevation of PPE expression and, by affecting PPE mRNA expression 
differentially on the intact and lesioned striatum, markedly reduced the
side-to-side difference in PPE mRNA expression. The effects on PPE mRNA
expression were apparent throughout the rostrocaudal extent of the putamen and
the dorsal portions of the caudate nucleus. l-DOPA treatment resulted in an
enhancement in PDyn mRNA expression in all functional compartments of the
striatum. Coadministration of (-)-OSU6162 had no apparent influence on these
l-DOPA-induced changes in PDyn mRNA expression. The present results suggest that 
(-)-OSU6162 acts primarily by modifying striatal output via the indirect pathway.

Copyright 2001 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/exnr.2001.7647 
PMID: 11312565  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

