

3184. Chromosoma. 2001 Feb;109(8):515-23.

Can molecular data place each neotropical monkey in its own branch?

Schneider H(1), Canavez FC, Sampaio I, Moreira MA, Tagliaro CH, Seuánez HN.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Genetics, Instituto Nacional de Câncer, Rio de Janeiro, RJ,
Brazil.

Four different DNA datasets, representative of all extant neotropical primate
genera, were tandemly aligned, comprising some 6,763 base pairs (bp) with 2,086
variable characters and 674 informative sites. Maximum Parsimony, Maximum
Likelihood and Neighbor-Joining analyses suggested three monophyletic families
(Atelidae, Pitheciidae and Cebidae) that emerged almost at the same time during
primate radiation. Combined molecular data showed congruent branching inside the 
atelid clade, placing Alouatta as the most basal lineage followed by Ateles and a
more derived branch including Brachyteles and Lagothrix as sister groups. In the 
Pitheciidae, Callicebus was the most basal lineage with respect to Pithecia and
to the more derived sister groups (Cacajao and Chiropotes). Conjoint analysis
strongly supported the monophyly of the Cebidae, grouping Aotus, Cebus and
Saimiri with the small callitrichines. Within callitrichines, Cebuella merged
with Callithrix, Callimico appeared as a sister group of Callithrix/Cebuella,
Leontopitecus as a sister group of the previous clade, and Saguinus was the
earliest callitrichine offshoot. Two major points remained to be clarified in
platyrrhine phylogeny: (i) the exact branching pattern of Aotus, Cebus, Saimiri
and the callitrichines, and (ii), which two of these three families (Atelidae,
Pitheciidae and Cebidae) are more closely related to one another.

DOI: 10.1007/s004120000106 
PMID: 11305784  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3185. J Neurochem. 2001 Apr;77(2):353-71.

gamma-Aminobutyric acid(A) neurotransmission and cerebral ischemia.

Schwartz-Bloom RD(1), Sah R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Cancer Biology, Duke University Medical Center,
Durham, North Carolina, USA. schwa001@duke.edu

In this review, we present evidence for the role of gamma-aminobutyric acid
(GABA) neurotransmission in cerebral ischemia-induced neuronal death. While
glutamate neurotransmission has received widespread attention in this area of
study, relatively few investigators have focused on the ischemia-induced
alterations in inhibitory neurotransmission. We present a review of the effects
of cerebral ischemia on pre and postsynaptic targets within the GABAergic
synapse. Both in vitro and in vivo models of ischemia have been used to measure
changes in GABA synthesis, release, reuptake, GABA(A) receptor expression and
activity. Cellular events generated by ischemia that have been shown to alter
GABA neurotransmission include changes in the Cl(-) gradient, reduction in ATP,
increase in intracellular Ca(2+), generation of reactive oxygen species, and
accumulation of arachidonic acid and eicosanoids. Neuroprotective strategies to
increase GABA neurotransmission target both sides of the synapse as well, by
preventing GABA reuptake and metabolism and increasing GABA(A) receptor activity 
with agonists and allosteric modulators. Some of these strategies are quite
efficacious in animal models of cerebral ischemia, with sedation as the only
unwanted side-effect. Based on promising animal data, clinical trials with
GABAergic drugs are in progress for specific types of stroke. This review
attempts to provide an understanding of the mechanisms by which GABA
neurotransmission is sensitive to cerebral ischemia. Furthermore, we discuss how 
dysfunction of GABA neurotransmission may contribute to neuronal death and how
neuronal death can be prevented by GABAergic drugs.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1471-4159.2001.00274.x 
PMID: 11299298  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

