

3188. Indian J Exp Biol. 2000 May;38(5):425-31.

Localization of estrogen and progesterone receptors in the endometrium of common 
marmosets Callithrix jacchus.

Kholkute SD(1), Nandedkar TD, Puri CP.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Research in Reproduction (ICMR) Jehangir Merwanji Street, Mumbai
400 012, India.

In the present study, changes in the immunohistochemical localization of
endometrial estrogen receptor (ER) and progesterone receptor (PR) during various 
stages of the ovarian cyclicity in common marmoset, have been reported. Ovarian
cyclicity was monitored by estimating plasma estradiol and progesterone. During
the early follicular phase, weak ER immunolocalization was observed in the
endometrial stroma. During the late follicular phase under the influence of
rising estradiol levels, stromal ER localization was intense. During the luteal
phase, ER localization was absent in the stroma indicating that high
concentrations of progesterone suppressed ER. PR localization was not observed in
the stroma during the early follicular phase, while weak staining was seen in the
stroma during the late follicular phase. PR localization was maximum during the
mid luteal phase. However in marmoset, endometrial ER and PR localization was
restricted only to the stroma. This unique feature may be due to the
characteristic reproductive profile of this nonmenstruating species and needs to 
be studied further. Thus it can be hypothesized that in the marmoset endometrium,
steroid hormone mediated effects possibly occur directly in the stroma and are
then transmitted to the epithelium by autocrine/paracrine action of growth
factors and cytokines.


PMID: 11272404  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3189. Pharmacol Biochem Behav. 2001 Feb;68(2):255-62.

Behavioral effects of buspirone in the marmoset employing a predator
confrontation test of fear and anxiety.

Barros M(1), Mello EL, Huston JP, Tomaz C.

Author information: 
(1)Primate Center and Department of Physiological Sciences, Institute of Biology,
University of Brasília, Brazil, CEP 70910-900, DF, Brasília, Brazil.

In order to further validate the recently developed marmoset (Callithrix
penicillata) predator confrontation model of fear and anxiety, we investigated
the behavioral effects of buspirone with this method. The apparatus consisted of 
three parallel arms connected at each end to a perpendicular arm, forming a
figure-eight continuous maze. A taxidermized wild oncilla cat (Felis tigrina) was
positioned facing a corner of the parallel arms, alternating between the left or 
right side of the maze among animals tested. All subjects were first submitted to
seven 30-min maze habituation trials (HTs) in the absence of the predator, and
then to five randomly assigned treatment trials (TTs) in the presence of the
predator: three buspirone sessions (0.1, 0.5 and 1.0 mg/kg), saline and sham
injection controls. Twenty minutes after treatment administration, the animal was
released into the maze and had free access to the apparatus for 30 min. All
trials were taped for later behavioral analysis. Buspirone significantly
decreased the frequency of scent marking, while increasing the time spent in
proximity to the 'predator' stimulus, indicating an anxiolytic effect. Neither
locomotor activity, exposure to a novel environment, stimulus location and
habituation, nor gender influenced the effects of the drug treatments. These
results further validate this method and demonstrate the potential usefulness of 
this ethologically based paradigm to test anxiety and fear-induced avoidance in
nonhuman primates and its susceptibility to anxiolytic pharmacological
manipulations.

DOI: 10.1016/s0091-3057(00)00447-0 
PMID: 11267630  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

