

3195. Horm Behav. 2001 Mar;39(2):106-12.

Bromocriptine administration lowers serum prolactin and disrupts parental
responsiveness in common marmosets (Callithrix j. jacchus).

Roberts RL(1), Jenkins KT, Lawler T Jr, Wegner FH, Newman JD.

Author information: 
(1)Unit on Developmental Neuroethology, University of Wisconsin, Madison,
Wisconsin 53715, USA. LR123G@NIH.GOV

The influence of prolactin on parental responsiveness was investigated in eight
unpaired, parentally inexperienced common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus; 6
female, 2 male). The marmosets were prescreened with infants (1-10 days of age)
and required to exhibit short latency retrieval and infant carrying in at least
three consecutive pretests as criterion for inclusion in this study. The
marmosets were then administered the dopamine agonist bromocriptine (0.5 mg/0.5ml
vehicle subcutaneously) and the vehicle alone (0.5 ml 10% ethanol solution) twice
daily for 3 consecutive days in random order. Bromocriptine treatment reduced
circulating prolactin to nondetectable levels. Bromocriptine treatment eliminated
infant retrieval in four of the eight marmosets and was associated with
significantly increased retrieval latencies and significantly reduced carrying
durations in the four monkeys that continued to retrieve following bromocriptine 
treatment. When given the vehicle alone, the marmosets retrieved infants
significantly faster than during pretests, suggesting a handling effect of the
injection series. Bromocriptine treatments were associated with significantly
increased movement during the tests. The results of this study indicate that
prolactin and/or its regulatory neurotransmitters are involved in the control of 
the spontaneous display of parental responsiveness in common marmosets.

Copyright 2001 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/hbeh.2000.1639 
PMID: 11243738  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3196. Braz J Biol. 2000 Nov;60(4):667-72.

Parental care in the buffy-tufted-ear marmoset (Callithrix aurita) in wild and
captive groups.

Santos CV(1), Martins MM.

Author information: 
(1)Dinâmica Projetos Ambientais, Florianópolis, SC, Brazil.

Studies on cooperative care of offspring in callitrichid primates are biased in
favor of observations in captivity. In the wild, however, individuals have to
deal with environmental pressures, which may influence their social behavior. We 
compared the individual effort attributed to parental care offered by members of 
a wild group (couple, plus a subadult helper) and two captive groups (A: couple, 
plus an subadult helper, B: couple, plus four adult helpers) of the
buffy-tufted-ear marmoset, Callithrix aurita, from weeks 1-12 after the infants' 
birth. The carrier (breeding male and female or helper) and the infant's feeding 
(food sharing and foraging for food) were recorded. Up to week four, while the
wild breeding pair shared infant carrying at similar proportions, the male from
captive group A carried 100% of the time. Adult helpers from group B were the
main carriers. Carrying behavior extended up to week 12 only in the wild group.
Food provisioning to the infant was observed earlier in the groups wild and A,
but general proportion of feeding records was lower in the wild than in
captivity. Energetic cost of travelling and searching for food may be associated 
with equal division of carrying behavior by the wild breeding pair. Higher
proportions of carrying in the groups wild and B may have delayed the development
of the infants' motor skills required in foraging. Our data agree with previous
studies: the father's lower investment in carrying when adult helpers are present
and lower contribution of subadult non-reproductive members.

DOI: 10.1590/s0034-71082000000400018 
PMID: 11241967  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

