

3196. Braz J Biol. 2000 Nov;60(4):667-72.

Parental care in the buffy-tufted-ear marmoset (Callithrix aurita) in wild and
captive groups.

Santos CV(1), Martins MM.

Author information: 
(1)Dinâmica Projetos Ambientais, Florianópolis, SC, Brazil.

Studies on cooperative care of offspring in callitrichid primates are biased in
favor of observations in captivity. In the wild, however, individuals have to
deal with environmental pressures, which may influence their social behavior. We 
compared the individual effort attributed to parental care offered by members of 
a wild group (couple, plus a subadult helper) and two captive groups (A: couple, 
plus an subadult helper, B: couple, plus four adult helpers) of the
buffy-tufted-ear marmoset, Callithrix aurita, from weeks 1-12 after the infants' 
birth. The carrier (breeding male and female or helper) and the infant's feeding 
(food sharing and foraging for food) were recorded. Up to week four, while the
wild breeding pair shared infant carrying at similar proportions, the male from
captive group A carried 100% of the time. Adult helpers from group B were the
main carriers. Carrying behavior extended up to week 12 only in the wild group.
Food provisioning to the infant was observed earlier in the groups wild and A,
but general proportion of feeding records was lower in the wild than in
captivity. Energetic cost of travelling and searching for food may be associated 
with equal division of carrying behavior by the wild breeding pair. Higher
proportions of carrying in the groups wild and B may have delayed the development
of the infants' motor skills required in foraging. Our data agree with previous
studies: the father's lower investment in carrying when adult helpers are present
and lower contribution of subadult non-reproductive members.

DOI: 10.1590/s0034-71082000000400018 
PMID: 11241967  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3197. J Comp Neurol. 2001 Apr 2;432(2):184-96.

Parkin immunoreactivity in the brain of human and non-human primates: an
immunohistochemical analysis in normal conditions and in Parkinsonian syndromes.

Zarate-Lagunes M(1), Gu WJ, Blanchard V, Francois C, Muriel MP, Mouatt-Prigent A,
Bonici B, Parent A, Hartmann A, Yelnik J, Boehme GA, Pradier L, Moussaoui S,
Faucheux B, Raisman-Vozari R, Agid Y, Brice A, Hirsch EC.

Author information: 
(1)INSERM U 289, Hôpital de la Salpêtrière, 47 Bd. de l'Hôpital, 75013 Paris,
France.

The etiology of Parkinson's disease is unknown, but the gene involved in an
autosomic recessive form of the disease with early onset has recently been
identified. It codes for a protein with an unknown function called parkin. In the
present study we produced a specific polyclonal antiserum against human parkin.
Immunohistochemical analysis showed that parkin is expressed in neuronal
perikarya and processes but also in glial and blood vessels in the primate brain 
(human and monkey). Electron microscopy indicated that parkin immunoreactivity is
mostly located in large cytoplasmic vesicles and at the level of the endoplasmic 
reticulum. Parkin was expressed heterogeneously in various structures of the
brain. It was detectable in the dopaminergic systems at the level of the
perikarya in the mesencephalon but also in the striatum. However, parkin was also
expressed by numerous nondopaminergic neurons. The staining intensity of parkin
was particularly high in the hippocampal formation, the pallidal complex, the red
nucleus, and the cerebellum. Comparison of control subjects with patients with
Parkinson's disease and control animals with
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-intoxicated animals revealed 
a loss of parkin-immunoreactive neurons only in the substantia nigra pars
compacta. Furthermore, the surviving dopaminergic neurons in the parkinsonian
state continued to express parkin at a level similar to that observed in the
control situation. These data indicate that parkin is a widely expressed protein.
Thus, the degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in familial cases of Parkinson's
disease with autosomal recessive transmission cannot be explained solely in terms
of an alteration of this protein.

Copyright 2001 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.1096 
PMID: 11241385  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

