

3203. Reproduction. 2001 Mar;121(3):355-62.

Regulation and manipulation of angiogenesis in the primate corpus luteum.

Fraser HM(1), Lunn SF.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Human Reproductive Sciences Unit, Centre for Reproductive Biology, 37
Chalmers Street, Edinburgh EH3 9ET, UK. h.fraser@hrsu.mrc.ac.uk

Intense physiological angiogenesis occurs during the early stages of luteal
development, providing a model in which the complex processes regulating the
angiogenic pathway may be studied. Here, a working hypothesis is presented to
explain the diverse changes in the vasculature of the corpus luteum that occur
over a short period, based around changes in vascular endothelial growth factor, 
the angiopoietins and matrix metalloproteinases. An illustration is given of how 
angiogenesis can be monitored in a primate model and how the role of individual
angiogenic factors such as vascular endothelial growth factor may be explored in 
vivo. Because of the marked effect of inhibition of angiogenesis on luteal
function, it is predicted that the normal processes of follicular development,
ovulation and luteal function could all be profoundly influenced by the
manipulation of angiogenesis.

DOI: 10.1530/rep.0.1210355 
PMID: 11226061  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3204. Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2000 Dec;28(6):423-30.

Intraretinal axon diameters of a New World primate, the marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus).

Walsh N(1), Ghosh KK, FitzGibbon T.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Biomedical Research, Department of Physiology, University of
Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.

PURPOSE: Previously, measurements of retinal ganglion cell axon diameter have
been used to make inferences about the physiology and clinical pathology of the
visual pathway. However, few of these studies were able to unequivocally relate
axon diameter to retinal ganglion cell type and other associated measurements. In
this and our previous study we have examined intraretinal axon diameters to
determine if differences in axon diameter may help to explain conduction velocity
measurements found previously.
METHODS: Individual retinal ganglion cells of a New World primate, the common
marmoset (Collithrix jacchus) were injected iontophoretically with 2% Lucifer
yellow and 4% neurobiotin. Labelled cells were visualized by horseradish
peroxidase immunohistochemistry and diaminobenzidine and then retinae were
mounted vitreal side up on a glass slide. Cell measurements were made with the
aid of a camera lucida attachment and computer-aided morphometry Axons were
photographed under x 100 oil immersion and measured at a final magnification of x
4600.
RESULTS: A sample of 62 parasol cells, 22 midget cells, 16 hedge cells and 11
small bistratified cells were analysed. Dendritic field diameter of the different
cell classes showed only moderate (non-significant) increases with eccentricity. 
Only the parasol cells demonstrated a significant increase in mean axon diameter 
with eccentricity. When the parasol class was examined more closely, it was found
that only parasol cells of the superior, inferior and temporal retina (SIT group)
showed significant positive correlations between different cell parameters (mean 
axon diameter, soma diameter, dendritic field diameter, eccentricity). Soma and
dendritic field diameters of the SIT group were significantly larger than those
of the nasal parasol cells. However, mean axon diameters of the SIT cells were
not significantly different from nasal parasol cells. Axon diameters of nasal
parasol cells were very variable and overlapped those of the midget and hedge
cell classes to a large extent.
CONCLUSIONS: The present data show that for marmoset parasol cells there may not 
be a clearly defined distinction between nasal and superior, inferior and
temporal parasol cells on the basis of axon size. Of particular interest in the
present analysis is the clear separation of superior, inferior and temporal
parasol cells and nasal parasol cells when comparing soma and dendritic field
diameters which is not reflected in the distribution of axon diameters. We
suggest that changes in diameter along the length of an axon, differences between
retinal quadrants and the variability between cells may be related to
minimization of spatiotemporal dispersion necessary for accurate perception of
motion within the visual world.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1442-9071.2000.00347.x 
PMID: 11202465  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

