

3204. Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2000 Dec;28(6):423-30.

Intraretinal axon diameters of a New World primate, the marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus).

Walsh N(1), Ghosh KK, FitzGibbon T.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Biomedical Research, Department of Physiology, University of
Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.

PURPOSE: Previously, measurements of retinal ganglion cell axon diameter have
been used to make inferences about the physiology and clinical pathology of the
visual pathway. However, few of these studies were able to unequivocally relate
axon diameter to retinal ganglion cell type and other associated measurements. In
this and our previous study we have examined intraretinal axon diameters to
determine if differences in axon diameter may help to explain conduction velocity
measurements found previously.
METHODS: Individual retinal ganglion cells of a New World primate, the common
marmoset (Collithrix jacchus) were injected iontophoretically with 2% Lucifer
yellow and 4% neurobiotin. Labelled cells were visualized by horseradish
peroxidase immunohistochemistry and diaminobenzidine and then retinae were
mounted vitreal side up on a glass slide. Cell measurements were made with the
aid of a camera lucida attachment and computer-aided morphometry Axons were
photographed under x 100 oil immersion and measured at a final magnification of x
4600.
RESULTS: A sample of 62 parasol cells, 22 midget cells, 16 hedge cells and 11
small bistratified cells were analysed. Dendritic field diameter of the different
cell classes showed only moderate (non-significant) increases with eccentricity. 
Only the parasol cells demonstrated a significant increase in mean axon diameter 
with eccentricity. When the parasol class was examined more closely, it was found
that only parasol cells of the superior, inferior and temporal retina (SIT group)
showed significant positive correlations between different cell parameters (mean 
axon diameter, soma diameter, dendritic field diameter, eccentricity). Soma and
dendritic field diameters of the SIT group were significantly larger than those
of the nasal parasol cells. However, mean axon diameters of the SIT cells were
not significantly different from nasal parasol cells. Axon diameters of nasal
parasol cells were very variable and overlapped those of the midget and hedge
cell classes to a large extent.
CONCLUSIONS: The present data show that for marmoset parasol cells there may not 
be a clearly defined distinction between nasal and superior, inferior and
temporal parasol cells on the basis of axon size. Of particular interest in the
present analysis is the clear separation of superior, inferior and temporal
parasol cells and nasal parasol cells when comparing soma and dendritic field
diameters which is not reflected in the distribution of axon diameters. We
suggest that changes in diameter along the length of an axon, differences between
retinal quadrants and the variability between cells may be related to
minimization of spatiotemporal dispersion necessary for accurate perception of
motion within the visual world.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1442-9071.2000.00347.x 
PMID: 11202465  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3205. Comp Med. 2000 Dec;50(6):609-12.

Gross and microscopic anatomy of the extraorbital lacrimal gland of the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Katsuta O(1), Yamaguchi-Onozawa M, Okazaki K, Itoh T, Okazaki Y, Tsuchitani M.

Author information: 
(1)Mitsubishi Chemical Safety Institute Ltd., Ibaraki-ken, Japan.

PURPOSE: The lacrimal gland is often selected for microscopic examination in
toxicologic studies. However, this gland is difficult to find within the orbit in
marmosets at necropsy. Therefore, we examined the extraorbital lacrimal glands in
marmosets.
METHODS: The formalin-fixed craniums of four marmosets were used in a topographic
study to confirm location of the lacrimal gland, and the results were applied to 
a routine toxicologic study in marmosets.
RESULTS: The extraorbital lacrimal gland was located on the temporal surface of
the zygomaticofrontal process and was covered with the temporalis muscle. The
gland was easily detached from the surrounding tissue, and its histologic
features were the same as those of the intraorbital lacrimal gland.
CONCLUSIONS: The extraorbital lacrimal glands have been reported in some New
World monkeys, but to the authors' knowledge, this is the first report in
marmosets. Identification and characterization of this gland will be useful for
toxicologic studies in marmosets.


PMID: 11200566  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

