

3205. Comp Med. 2000 Dec;50(6):609-12.

Gross and microscopic anatomy of the extraorbital lacrimal gland of the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Katsuta O(1), Yamaguchi-Onozawa M, Okazaki K, Itoh T, Okazaki Y, Tsuchitani M.

Author information: 
(1)Mitsubishi Chemical Safety Institute Ltd., Ibaraki-ken, Japan.

PURPOSE: The lacrimal gland is often selected for microscopic examination in
toxicologic studies. However, this gland is difficult to find within the orbit in
marmosets at necropsy. Therefore, we examined the extraorbital lacrimal glands in
marmosets.
METHODS: The formalin-fixed craniums of four marmosets were used in a topographic
study to confirm location of the lacrimal gland, and the results were applied to 
a routine toxicologic study in marmosets.
RESULTS: The extraorbital lacrimal gland was located on the temporal surface of
the zygomaticofrontal process and was covered with the temporalis muscle. The
gland was easily detached from the surrounding tissue, and its histologic
features were the same as those of the intraorbital lacrimal gland.
CONCLUSIONS: The extraorbital lacrimal glands have been reported in some New
World monkeys, but to the authors' knowledge, this is the first report in
marmosets. Identification and characterization of this gland will be useful for
toxicologic studies in marmosets.


PMID: 11200566  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3206. Hum Immunol. 2001 Feb;62(2):125-32.

Quantitation of HLA-A*0201 bound tumor associated antigens on a peptide pulsed B 
cell line.

Wataya H(1), Kamikawaji N, Nakanishi Y, Takayama K, Hara N, Sasazuki T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, CREST (Core Research for Evolutional Science and
Technology), Kyushu University, 812-8582, Fukuoka, Japan.

CTLs recognize 8- to 10-mer peptides on MHC class I molecules. Recent studies
have shown that human CTLs kill autologous tumor cells in an HLA-restricted and
peptide-specific manner, and that artificial pep- tides can stimulate
tumor-specific CTLs both in vitro and in vivo. Accordingly, several human
clinical trials using such peptides are ongoing worldwide. In such methods, the
amount of peptide-MHC complexes that remain on the cell surface of APCs after
peptide administration is crucial, because CTL activation depends on the number
of ligated TCRs and co-stimulation. However, it remains uncertain how many
peptide-MHC complexes are reconstituted and remain on live cells after peptide
administration. We herein examined the binding affinities of five HLA-A*0201
restricted peptides-four TAAs and one HIV antigen-to HLA-A*0201 molecules and
their decay rates on a live B cell line using tandem mass spectrometry. Our
experiments showed that nearly 10(5) peptide-MHC complexes per cell could be
reconstituted on a cell surface by pulsing a high dose of peptide even if the
binding affinities were intermediate or low. However, the decay rates observed
for these pep- tide-MHC complexes on a B cell line were faster than previously
estimated.

DOI: 10.1016/s0198-8859(00)00251-2 
PMID: 11182221  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

