

3209. Eur J Neurosci. 2001 Feb;13(3):597-608.

GDNF reverses priming for dyskinesia in MPTP-treated, L-DOPA-primed common
marmosets.

Iravani MM(1), Costa S, Jackson MJ, Tel BC, Cannizzaro C, Pearce RK, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Research Centre, Guy's, King's and St Thomas' School
of Biomedical Sciences, King's College, London SE1 1UL, UK.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is associated with a progressive loss of dopamine
neurons in the substantia nigra and degeneration of dopaminergic terminals in the
striatum. Although L-DOPA treatment provides the most effective symptomatic
relief for PD it does not prevent the progression of the disease, and its
long-term use is associated with the onset of dyskinesia. In rodent and primate
studies, glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) may prevent 6-OHDA-
or MPTP-induced nigral degeneration and so may be beneficial in the treatment of 
PD. In this study, we investigate the effects of GDNF on the expression of
dyskinesia in L-DOPA-primed MPTP-treated common marmosets, exhibiting dyskinesia.
GDNF or saline was administered by two intraventricular injections, 4 weeks
apart, to MPTP-treated, L-DOPA-treated common marmosets primed to exhibit
dyskinesia. Prior to GDNF or saline administration, all animals displayed marked 
dyskinesia when treated with L-DOPA. GDNF administration produced a significant
improvement in motor disability and, following the second injection of GDNF, a
significant improvement in the locomotor activity was observed. Following the
administration of L-DOPA there was a greater reversal of disability and a
reduction in the intensity of L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia in GDNF-treated animals
compared to saline-treated controls. However, there was no significant difference
in L-DOPA's ability to increase locomotor activity between GDNF-treated and
saline-treated animals. GDNF treatment caused a significant increase in the
number of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons in the substantia nigra, but no
change in [(3)H]mazindol binding to dopamine terminals was found in the striatum 
of GDNF-treated animals compared to saline-treated controls. In GDNF-treated
animals a small but significant reduction in enkephalin mRNA was observed in the 
caudate nucleus but not in the putamen or the nucleus accumbens. Substance P mRNA
expression was equally reduced in the caudate nucleus and the putamen of the
GDNF-treated animals but not in the nucleus accumbens. Intraventricular
administration of GDNF improved MPTP-induced disability and reversed dopamine
cell loss in the substantia nigra. GDNF also diminished L-DOPA-induced
dyskinesia, which may relate to its ability to partly restore nigral dopaminergic
transmission or to modify the activity of striatal output pathways.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1460-9568.2001.01408.x 
PMID: 11168568  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3210. Eur J Pharmacol. 2001 Jan 19;412(1):45-50.

Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor concentration dependently improves
disability and motor activity in MPTP-treated common marmosets.

Costa S(1), Iravani MM, Pearce RK, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Research Centre, Hodgkin Building, GKT School of
Biomedical Sciences, King's College London, Guy's Campus, SE1 1UL, London, UK.

Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) has previously reduced motor
deficits and preserved nigral dopamine neurones in rhesus monkeys with a
unilateral MPTP-induced lesion of substantia nigra. We now report on the ability 
of GDNF to reverse motor deficits induced by parenteral administration of
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) to common marmosets resulting
in bilateral degeneration of the nigrostriatal pathway. Prior to GDNF
administration, all MPTP-treated animals showed akinesia or bradykinesia,
rigidity, postural instability and tremor. Intraventricular injection of GDNF
(10, 100 or 500 microg) at 9 and 13 weeks post MPTP treatment resulted in a
concentration dependent improvement in locomotor activity and motor disability
which became significant after administration of 100 and 500 microg of GDNF. The 
most prominent improvements were in alertness, checking movements, and posture.
It is concluded that intraventricular GDNF administration improves bilateral
Parkinsonian motor disability following MPTP treatment and this may reflect an
action of GDNF on remaining nigral dopaminergic neurones.

DOI: 10.1016/s0014-2999(00)00933-x 
PMID: 11166735  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

