

3218. Biol Reprod. 2001 Feb;64(2):527-36.

Autoradiographic localization of specific binding of meiosis-activating sterol to
cumulus-oocyte complexes from marmoset, cow, and mouse.

Faerge I(1), Grøndahl C, Ottesen JL, Hyttel P.

Author information: 
(1)Pharmacological Research 3, Pharmacology, Health Care Discovery, Novo Nordisk 
A/S, Novo Nordisk Park, G 8.1.39, Må, 2760 Måløv, Denmark. ingf@novo.dk

The sterol, 4,4-dimethyl-5alpha-cholesta-8,14,24-trien-3beta-ol (FF-MAS),
isolated from human follicular fluid, can induce resumption of meiosis in denuded
and cumulus-enclosed mouse oocytes inhibited by hypoxanthine, IBMX, or dibutyric 
cyclic adenosine monophosphate. In this study the distribution of FF-MAS binding 
sites in denuded oocytes and in cumulus-oocyte complexes (COCs) was studied using
light microscopic (LM) and transmission electron microscopic (TEM)
autoradiography in marmoset, cow, and mouse oocytes. Denuded (n = 39) and
cumulus-enclosed (n = 28) marmoset, cow, and mouse oocytes were cultured in the
presence of [3H]FF-MAS with and without excess of unlabeled FF-MAS, respectively.
In denuded oocytes LM autoradiography demonstrated specific binding to the
oolemma and zona pellucida and, to some extent, the cytoplasm. In the nucleus, no
specific binding of [3H]FF-MAS was demonstrated. In some COCs the labeling was
dispersed throughout the zona pellucida, the oolemma, and the cytoplasm as well
as the cumulus cells; whereas in others, only the outer part of the cumulus cells
were labeled. TEM autoradiograms of denuded cow oocytes (n = 6) demonstrated that
specific [3H]FF-MAS binding was closely related to the oolemma and that a low
level of [3H]FF-MAS binding to cumulus cell remnants was present. In conclusion, 
specific binding of FF-MAS is predominant at the oolemma of denuded oocytes,
suggesting the existence of a plasma membrane-associated molecule with affinity
for FF-MAS (i.e., a putative FF-MAS receptor).

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod64.2.527 
PMID: 11159355  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3219. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2001 Jan 30;98(3):1224-9.

An Epstein-Barr-related herpesvirus from marmoset lymphomas.

Cho Y(1), Ramer J, Rivailler P, Quink C, Garber RL, Beier DR, Wang F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, 
Boston, MA 02115, USA.

Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) is implicated in the development of human B cell
lymphomas and carcinomas. Although related oncogenic herpesviruses were believed 
to be endemic only in Old World primate species, we now find these viruses to be 
endemic in New World primates. We have isolated a transforming, EBV-related virus
from spontaneous B cell lymphomas of common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).
Sequencing of two-thirds of the genome reveals considerable divergence from the
genomes of EBV and Old World primate EBV-related viruses, including differences
in genes important for virus-induced cell growth transformation and pathogenesis.
DNA related to the C. jacchus herpesvirus is frequently detected in squirrel
monkey peripheral blood lymphocytes, indicating that persistent infection with
EBV-related viruses is prevalent in both New World primate families.
Understanding how these more divergent EBV-related viruses achieve similar
biologic outcomes in their natural host is likely to provide important insights
into EBV infection, B cell growth transformation, and oncogenesis.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.98.3.1224 
PMCID: PMC14736
PMID: 11158621  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

