

3219. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2001 Jan 30;98(3):1224-9.

An Epstein-Barr-related herpesvirus from marmoset lymphomas.

Cho Y(1), Ramer J, Rivailler P, Quink C, Garber RL, Beier DR, Wang F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, 
Boston, MA 02115, USA.

Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) is implicated in the development of human B cell
lymphomas and carcinomas. Although related oncogenic herpesviruses were believed 
to be endemic only in Old World primate species, we now find these viruses to be 
endemic in New World primates. We have isolated a transforming, EBV-related virus
from spontaneous B cell lymphomas of common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).
Sequencing of two-thirds of the genome reveals considerable divergence from the
genomes of EBV and Old World primate EBV-related viruses, including differences
in genes important for virus-induced cell growth transformation and pathogenesis.
DNA related to the C. jacchus herpesvirus is frequently detected in squirrel
monkey peripheral blood lymphocytes, indicating that persistent infection with
EBV-related viruses is prevalent in both New World primate families.
Understanding how these more divergent EBV-related viruses achieve similar
biologic outcomes in their natural host is likely to provide important insights
into EBV infection, B cell growth transformation, and oncogenesis.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.98.3.1224 
PMCID: PMC14736
PMID: 11158621  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3220. Immunogenetics. 2000 Mar;51(3):219-30.

Sequence and diversity of DRB genes of Aotus nancymaae, a primate model for human
malaria parasites.

Nino-Vasquez JJ(1), Vogel D, Rodriguez R, Moreno A, Patarroyo ME, Pluschke G,
Daubenberger CA.

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Inmunologia, Hospital San Juan de Dios, Universidad Nacional de
Colombia, Santafe de Bogota, DC. javinino@hotmail.com

The New World primate Aotus nancymaae is susceptible to infection with the human 
malaria parasite Plasmodium falciparum and Plasmodium vivax and has therefore
been recommended by the World Health Organization as a model for evaluation of
malaria vaccine candidates. We present here a first step in the molecular
characterization of the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II DRB genes
of Aotus nancymaae (owl monkey or night monkey) by nucleotide sequence analysis
of the polymorphic exon 2 segments. In a group of 15 nonrelated animals
captivated in the wild, 34 MHC DRB alleles could be identified. Six allelic
lineages were detected, two of them having human counterparts, while two other
lineages have not been described in any other New World monkey species studied.
As in the common marmoset, the diversity of DRB alleles appears to have arisen
largely by point mutations in the beta-pleated sheets and by frequent exchange of
fixed sequence motifs in the alpha-helical portion. Pairs of alleles differing
only at amino acid position b86 by an exchange of valine to glycine are present
in Aotus, as in humans. Essential amino acid residues contributing to MHC DR
peptide binding pockets number 1 and 4 are conserved or semiconserved between
HLA-DR and Aona-DRB molecules, indicating a capacity to bind similar peptide
repertoires. These results support fully our using Aotus monkeys as an animal
model for evaluation of future subunit vaccine candidates.

DOI: 10.1007/s002510050035 
PMID: 10752632  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

