

3221. Folia Primatol (Basel). 2000 Nov-Dec;71(6):367-74.

Social influence on induced food preference in common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus).

Queyras A(1), Scolavino M, Puopolo M, Vitale A.

Author information: 
(1)Section of Comparative Psychology, Laboratorio di Fisiopatologia di Organo e
di Sistema, Istituto Superiore di Sanità, Rome, Italy.

In this paper, we investigate the role of sociality in changing an induced food
preference in captive common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus), in the particular
case of interactions between animals with contrasting information. After
modifying a food preference by making a preferred food unpalatable for pairs of
individuals (labelled as conditioned individuals) we recorded food choice under
three experimental conditions: pairs interacting (one conditioned pair with one
non-conditioned pair); pairs separated (conditioned and non-conditioned pairs by 
themselves the day after the social condition); control (conditioned and
non-conditioned pairs alone). The main results was that only the conditioned
individuals modified their food choice, consuming significantly more of the
spontaneously preferred food during the pairs interacting and pairs separated
conditions, but not during the control condition.

Copyright 2001 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 10.1159/000052733 
PMID: 11155024  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3222. J Neurophysiol. 2001 Jan;85(1):235-46.

Influence of contrast on the responses of marmoset lateral geniculate cells to
drifting gratings.

Kremers J(1), Silveira LC, Kilavik BE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Ophthalmology, University of Tübingen Eye Hospital,
D-72076 Tubingen, Germany. jan.kremers@uni-tuebingen.de

The responses of lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) cells in the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus) to drifting luminance or cone isolating gratings of
different spatial frequencies and contrasts were measured. The response noise,
defined as the variability of the responses to single sweeps in the complex
plane, was independent of stimulus contrast and spatial frequency but increased
with increasing overall responsiveness of the cell. The signal-to-noise ratio of 
parvocellular (PC) cells was smaller than of magnocellular (MC) cells. At each
contrast, the response amplitude as a function of spatial frequency could be
described with a difference of Gaussians model. With this model, the sizes and
the peak sensitivities of the receptive field centers and surrounds were
estimated. It was found that receptive field center and surround sizes of LGN
cells decrease slightly with increasing contrast. Further, the peak sensitivity
decreases with increasing contrast. The two factors are involved in a decrease in
responsivity (the response per unit contrast) with increasing contrast which is
compatible to response saturation for low spatial frequency stimuli. PC cells did
not saturate as much to luminance stimuli although some saturation was found with
cone isolating gratings. We found that the response phase lag of both PC and MC
cells decreased with increasing contrast, which cannot be explained on the basis 
of linear response behavior. Apparently the phase of LGN cell responses to
drifting gratings is altered in comparison with the retinal inputs by additional 
nonlinearities.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.2001.85.1.235 
PMID: 11152723  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

