

3224. J Neurosurg. 2001 Jan;94(1 Suppl):82-90.

Innervation of the caudal denervated ventral roots and their target muscles by
the rostral spinal motoneurons after implanting a nerve autograft in spinal
cord-injured adult marmosets.

Liu S(1), Aghakhani N, Boisset N, Said G, Tadie M.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Experimental Neurosurgery, Faculté de M ecine Paris-Sud,
University of Paris XI, France.

OBJECT: The authors conducted a study to determine the effects of using a nerve
autograft (NAG) to promote and guide axonal regrowth from the rostral spinal cord
to the caudal lumbar ventral nerve roots to restore hindlimb motor function in
adult marmosets after lower thoracic cord injury.
METHODS: Nine animals underwent a left-sided hemisection of the spinal cord at
T-12 via left-sided T9-L3 hemilaminectomy, with section of all ipsilateral
lumbrosacral ventral nerve roots. In the experimental group (five animals), an
NAG obtained from the right peroneal nerve was anastomosed with the sectioned and
electrophysiologically selected lumbar ventral roots (left L-3 and L-4)
controlling the left quadriceps muscle and then implanted into the left
ventrolateral T-10 cord. In the control group (four animals), the
sectioned/selected lumbar ventral roots were only ligated. After surgery, all
marmosets immediately suffered from complete paralysis of their left hindlimb.
Five months later, some clinical signs of reinnervation such as tension and
resistance began to appear in the paralyzed quadriceps of all experimental
animals that received autografts. Nine months postoperatively, three of the five 
experimental marmosets could maintain their lesioned hindlimb in hip flexion.
Muscle action potentials and motor evoked potentials were recorded from the
target quadriceps in all experimental marmosets, but these potentials were absent
in the control animals. Horseradish peroxidase retrograde labeling from the
distal sectioned/reconnected lumbar ventral roots traced 234+/-178 labeled
neurons in the ipsilateral T8-10 ventral horn, mainly close to the NAG tip.
Histological analysis showed numerous regenerating axons in this
denervated/reconnected nerve root pathway, as well as newly formed motor
endplates in the denervated/reinnervated quadriceps. No axonal regeneration was
detected in the control animals.
CONCLUSIONS: These data indicate that the rostral spinal neurons can regrow into 
the caudal ventral roots through an NAG, thereby innervating the target muscle in
adult marmosets after spinal cord injury.

DOI: 10.3171/spi.2001.94.1.0082 
PMID: 11147873  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3225. Brain Res. 2001 Jan 5;888(1):34-50.

Visual discrimination learning impairments produced by combined transections of
the anterior temporal stem, amygdala and fornix in marmoset monkeys.

Maclean CJ(1), Gaffan D, Baker HF, Ridley RM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, Downing Street, CB2 3EB, Cambridge, UK.

Marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) with bilateral transections of the anterior
temporal stem, amygdala and fornix were unable to relearn a 2-choice object
discrimination first learnt prior to surgery, and were very severely impaired at 
relearning a concurrent object discrimination task which they had learnt and
relearnt prior to surgery, indicating that they had a dense retrograde amnesia.
They also had difficulty learning new visual object discriminations but were only
mildly impaired on spatial learning. When tested on new learning of concurrent
discriminations 8 to 10 weeks after surgery, three operated monkeys were unable
to reach criterion in 400 trials while the remaining two operated monkeys
performed within the normal range. The operated monkeys were subsequently shown
to be impaired on acquisition of shape discriminations using black objects. These
anterograde effects suggest that the impairment runs mainly in the domain of
visual analysis. The monkeys also exhibited many of the features of the
Klüver-Bucy syndrome. Histological analysis indicated that in addition to cutting
some of the subcortical temporal lobe efferent pathways, the surgical procedures 
had cut the cholinergic afferents to the temporal neocortex, entorhinal cortex,
and hippocampus. In a second experiment we found that treatment with the
cholinergic agonist pilocarpine, which is effective in monkeys with specific
cholinergic lesions, was unable to remediate the lesion-induced impairments. This
suggests that transection of the non-cholinergic afferents, or the temporal lobe 
subcortical efferents, contributed to the behavioural syndrome and the learning
and retention deficits seen in these monkeys.

DOI: 10.1016/s0006-8993(00)02998-x 
PMID: 11146050  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

