

3228. Biol Reprod. 2001 Jan;64(1):127-35.

Changes in follicle-stimulating hormone and follicle populations during the
ovarian cycle of the common marmoset.

Gilchrist RB(1), Wicherek M, Heistermann M, Nayudu PL, Hodges JK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Reproductive Biology, German Primate Centre, 37077, Göttingen,
Germany. robert.gilchrist@adelaide.edu.au

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) belongs to the family Callitrichidae,
the only anthropoid primates with a high and variable number of ovulations (one
to four). An understanding of folliculogenesis in this species may provide some
insight into factors regulating multiple follicular growth in primates. The aims 
of this study were to characterize in detail changes in the antral follicle
population at different stages of the ovarian cycle, to characterize the marmoset
FSH profile, and to relate cyclic changes in FSH to changes in follicle sizes and
circulating estradiol concentrations. Fifty-five pairs of ovaries were collected 
(32 of which were at five distinct stages of the cycle) from adult marmosets, and
antral follicles were manually excised and separated into four size groups. Daily
urinary FSH and plasma estradiol and progesterone concentrations from Day 0 of
the follicular phase to 2 days postovulation were measured in 22 marmosets using 
enzyme immunoassays. The FSH profile revealed two distinct peaks, on Days 2 and
6, during the 10-day follicular phase, with a marginal periovulatory increase on 
Days 9 and 10. Estradiol levels rose significantly (P: < 0.05) above baseline
(Days 1-4) on Day 5 and continuously increased to a peak on the day preceding
ovulation (Days 8 and 9). Follicle dissection revealed a high (mean = 68) and
variable (range, 14-158) total number of antral follicles >0.6 mm. The number of 
antral follicles significantly declined (P: < 0.001) with age. The number of
preovulatory follicles (>2 mm) was positively correlated with the number of
antral follicles (P: < 0. 001) and tended to be negatively related to age (P: =
0.06). The number of antral follicles did not vary significantly with stage of
the ovarian cycle, although the follicle size distribution was cycle-stage
dependent (P: < 0.05). Follicles >1.0 mm appeared only in the follicular phase,
and preovulatory follicles (>2.0 mm) appeared only at the end of the follicular
phase (Days 7-9). The Day 2 FSH peak corresponded to emergence of a population of
medium-size antral follicles, and the Day 6 peak was consistent with rising
estradiol levels and appearance of the preovulatory follicles. These results
suggest that some aspects of marmoset folliculogenesis are comparable to those in
Old World primates, including the absence of multiple follicular waves and the
appearance of an identifiable dominant follicle in the midfollicular phase.
However, the midphase FSH peak, multiple dominant follicles, and abundance of
nonovulatory antral follicles differ strongly from the pattern in Old World
primates and humans. The findings are discussed in relation to the regulation of 
growth of multiple ovulatory follicles and provide the basis for further studies 
on factors influencing the dynamics of follicular growth and development in this 
species.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod64.1.127 
PMID: 11133667  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3229. Biol Reprod. 2001 Jan;64(1):120-6.

Quantitative analysis of spermatogenesis and apoptosis in the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus) reveals high rates of spermatogonial turnover and high
spermatogenic efficiency.

Weinbauer GF(1), Aslam H, Krishnamurthy H, Brinkworth MH, Einspanier A, Hodges
JK.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Reproductive Medicine of the University, D-48129 Münster,
Germany. gerhard.weinbauer@covance.com

Spermatogenesis is characterized by the succession in time and space of specific 
germ cell associations (stages). There can be a single stage (e.g., rodents and
some macaques) or more than one stage (e.g., chimpanzee and human) per tubular
cross section. We analyzed the organization of the seminiferous epithelium and
quantified testicular germ cell production and apoptosis in a New World primate, 
the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). Tubule cross sections contained more
than one stage, and the human six-stage system could be applied to marmoset
spermatogenesis. Stereological (optical disector) analysis (n = 5) revealed high 
spermatogenic efficiency during meiosis and no loss of spermatids during
spermiogenesis. The conversion of type A to type B spermatogonia was several-fold
higher than that reported for other primates. Highest apoptotic rates were found 
for S-phase cells (20%) and 4C cells (15%) by flow cytometric analysis (n = 6
animals); histological analysis confirmed spermatogonial apoptosis. Haploid germ 
cell apoptosis was <2%. Marmoset spermatogenesis is very efficient and involves
substantial spermatogonial proliferation. The prime determinants of germ cell
production in primates appear to be proliferation and survival of spermatogonia
rather than the efficiency of meiotic divisions. Based on the organizational
similarities, common marmosets could provide a new animal model for experimental 
studies of human spermatogenesis.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod64.1.120 
PMID: 11133666  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

