

3233. Eur J Neurosci. 2000 Dec;12(12):4155-70.

Distribution of glycine receptor subunits on primate retinal ganglion cells: a
quantitative analysis.

Lin B(1), Martin PR, Solomon SG, Grünert U.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology F13 and Institute for Biomedical Research, The
University of Sydney, NSW 2006, Australia.

This study investigates the distribution of inhibitory neurotransmitter receptors
on sensory neurons. Ganglion cells in the retina of a New World monkey, the
common marmoset Callithrix jacchus, were injected with Lucifer yellow and
Neurobiotin and subsequently processed with antibodies against one (alpha1), or
against all subunits, of the glycine receptor, or against the anchoring protein
gephyrin. Immunoreactive (IR) puncta representing glycine receptor or gephyrin
clusters were found on the proximal and the distal dendrites of all ganglion cell
types investigated. For both parasol and midget cells, the density of receptor
clusters was greater on distal than proximal dendrites for all antibodies tested.
In parasol cells the average density for the alpha1 subunit of the glycine
receptor was 0.087 IR puncta/microm of dendrite, and for all subunits it was
0.119 IR puncta/microm of dendrite. Thus, the majority of glycine receptors on
parasol cells contain the alpha1 subunit. For parasol cells, we estimated an
average of 1.5 glycinergic synapses/100 microm2 dendritic membrane on proximal
dendrites and about 9.4 glycinergic synapses/100 microm2 on distal dendrites. The
segregation of receptors to the distal dendrites appears to be a common feature
of inhibitory neurotransmitter input to parasol and midget cells, and might be
associated with the receptive field surround mechanism.


PMID: 11122328  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3234. Virology. 2000 Dec 20;278(2):445-55.

Herpesvirus saimiri pathogenicity enhanced by thymidine kinase of herpes simplex 
virus.

Hiller C(1), Tamgüney G, Stolte N, Mätz-Rensing K, Lorenzen D, Hör S, Thurau M,
Wittmann S, Slavin S, Fickenscher H.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Klinische und Molekulare Virologie,
Friedrich-Alexander-Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg, Schlossgarten 4, Erlangen,
D-91054, Germany.

Herpesvirus saimiri can be used as an efficient gene expression vector for human 
T lymphocytes and thus may allow applications in experimental leukemia therapy.
We constructed recombinant viruses for the functional expression of the thymidine
kinase (TK) of herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV) as a suicide gene. These viruses
reliably allowed the targeted elimination of transduced nonpermissive human T
cells in vitro after the administration of ganciclovir. To test the reliability
of this function under the most stringent permissive conditions, in this study we
analyzed the influence of the prodrugs ganciclovir and acyclovir in common
marmosets on the acute leukemogenesis induced by either wild-type herpesvirus
saimiri C488 or by a recombinant derivative expressing TK of HSV. Antiviral drug 
treatment did not influence the rapid development of acute disease. In contrast, 
the presence of the HSV tk gene resulted in a faster disease progression. In
addition, HSV TK-expressing viruses showed faster replication than wild-type
virus in culture at low serum concentrations. Thus, HSV TK accelerates the
replication of herpesvirus saimiri and enhances its pathogenicity. This should be
generally considered when HSV TK is applied as a transgene in
replication-competent DNA virus vectors for gene therapy.

Copyright 2000 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/viro.2000.0665 
PMID: 11118367  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

