

3238. Exp Neurol. 2000 Dec;166(2):235-45.

The antioxidant ebselen prevents neurotoxicity and clinical symptoms in a primate
model of Parkinson's disease.

Moussaoui S(1), Obinu MC, Daniel N, Reibaud M, Blanchard V, Imperato A.

Author information: 
(1)Aventis Pharma, CNS Program, Centre de Recherche de Vitry-Alfortville
(Building CRV8), 13, quai Jules Guesde, Vitry sur Seine Cedex, 94403, France.

1-Methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP), via its major metabolite
1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium (MPP(+)), produces in primates including humans
clinical, biochemical, and neuropathological changes similar to those which occur
in idiopathic Parkinson's disease. Ebselen is an antioxidant drug with
glutathione peroxidase-like activity and a proven neuroprotective action in
stroke patients. Here we show that Ebselen, when administered before, during, and
after MPTP injections, prevents both neuronal loss and clinical symptoms in a
primate MPTP model of Parkinson's disease. Ebselen also prevents peroxide radical
overproduction induced by serum withdrawal in cultured PC12 cells and hydroxyl
radical generation induced by the mitochondrial toxin, MPP(+), in vivo in rat
brain. Moreover, Ebselen inhibits MPP(+)-induced toxicity in PC12 cells, without 
interacting with the dopamine uptake system. Our results demonstrate that
compounds which prevent mitochondrial dysfunction and free radical production may
be useful as preventive treatment of Parkinson's disease.

Copyright 2000 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/exnr.2000.7516 
PMID: 11085889  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3239. J Neurol. 2000 Sep;247 Suppl 5:V16-22.

The metabolic rate and vulnerability of dopaminergic neurons, and adenosine
dynamics in the cerebral cortex, nucleus accumbens, caudate nucleus, and putamen 
of the common marmoset.

Nomoto M(1), Kaseda S, Iwata S, Shimizu T, Fukuda T, Nakagawa S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Kagoshima University School of Medicine, Japan.
nomoto@m.kufm.kagoshima-u.ac.jp

The pathophysiology of the striatum and cerebral cortex were studied from the
pharmacological aspect. Investigation of the dopamine content in the cerebral
cortex revealed that the premotor and motor area showed the highest level
(61+/-6.2 ng/g). Intravenous injection of
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) at a dose of 10 mg/kg reduced
the dopamine content in the caudate nucleus and putamen to 2-3% of the control
level in common marmosets, while it fell to 60% in the nucleus accumbens. There
was no alteration of the dopamine content in the cerebral cortex.
Immunohistochemical staining for tyrosine hydroxylase in the midbrains of
MPTP-treated marmosets showed almost complete disappearance of dopaminergic cells
from the substantia nigra and good preservation of cells in the ventrotegmental
area. Dopaminergic cells projecting to the caudate/putamen, nucleus accumbens,
and cerebral cortex showed marked, moderate, and no vulnerability to MPTP,
respectively. After systemic administration of MPTP, dopaminergic neurons
projecting to the caudate nucleus and putamen were damaged equally. However, the 
compensatory increase of dopamine turnover was more prominent in the putamen than
in the caudate nucleus. Thus, nigroputaminal dopaminergic neurons may have a
higher level of activity than neurons in the caudate. The neural connections and 
functions of the caudate nucleus and putamen have already been differentiated
anatomically or physiologically. This compensatory increase of the dopamine
turnover rate is another aspect of functional differences between the caudate
nucleus and putamen. Investigation of the dopamine content in the head, body, and
tail of the caudate nucleus showed no differences in the concentration of
dopamine. However, a study of the metabolic rate of dopamine using
alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine, a tyrosine hydoxylase inhibitor, showed higher
metabolism of dopamine in the head of the caudate nucleus in common marmosets.
Thus, dopaminergic neurons projecting to the caudate nucleus may show
topographical differences in their firing rates. A microdialysis study indicated 
an increase in the metabolism of adenosine in the striatum of MPTP-treated
animals. Cholinergic neurons are interneurons and are one of the main sources of 
adenosine in the striatum. Dopaminergic input from the substantia nigra acting on
cholinergic neurons was decreased following MPTP treatment. The increase of
adenosine metabolism suggested that cholinergic neurons in the striatum receive
inhibitory inputs from nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons.

DOI: 10.1007/pl00007779 
PMID: 11081800  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

