

3243. J Comp Neurol. 2000 Nov 27;427(4):485-507.

Comparative study on the distribution patterns of P2X(1)-P2X(6) receptor
immunoreactivity in the brainstem of the rat and the common marmoset (Callithrix 
jacchus): association with catecholamine cell groups.

Yao ST(1), Barden JA, Finkelstein DI, Bennett MR, Lawrence AJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Monash University, Clayton, Victoria 3168,
Australia.

The present study investigated the topographical distribution of P2X(1)-P2X(6)
receptor subtypes in the rat and common marmoset hindbrain by
immunohistochemistry. In addition, double-labeling immunofluorescence was used to
determine the extent of colocalization between catecholamine cell groups and the 
various P2X receptors. The data demonstrate a widespread distribution pattern for
all six P2X receptors throughout both the rat hindbrain and the marmoset
hindbrain, although distinctions between species, brain nuclei, and P2X receptor 
subtypes exist. In rat, dense staining for the P2X receptors was found in the
nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS), medial vestibular nucleus, and medial and
lateral parabrachial nuclei. Moderate staining was observed in the hypoglossal
nucleus, cuneate nucleus, inferior olive, prepositus hypoglossi, rostral
ventrolateral medulla (RVLM), and locus coeruleus. Staining was also observed in 
the gracile nucleus, the mesencephalic trigeminal nucleus, and the central
pontine gray. In marmoset, prominent P2X receptor-like immunoreactivity occurred 
in the NTS, medial cuneate nucleus, prepositus hypoglossi, and medial vestibular 
nucleus. Moderate staining was observed in the area postrema, dorsal motor
nucleus of the vagus, lateral cuneate, lateral reticular, spinal trigeminal
nucleus, RVLM, and inferior olive. Immunofluorescent double labeling of tyrosine 
hydroxylase (TH)-containing cells revealed that all subtypes of P2X receptors
show some degree of colocalization with TH. The highest proportion of TH and P2X 
receptor double labeling was in the A5 region (with the P2X(2) subunit), whereas 
the lowest proportion of double-labeled cells occurred in the C2 region of the
NTS for the P2X(5) subunit. These findings support a role for extracellular
adenosine 5'-triphosphate in fast synaptic neurotransmission within the
brainstem.

Copyright 2000 Wiley-Liss, Inc.


PMID: 11056460  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3244. J Neurocytol. 1999 Dec;28(12):989-98.

Intraretinal axon diameter: a single cell analysis in the marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus).

Walsh N(1), Fitzgibbon T, Ghosh KK.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Biomedical Research, The University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW,
Australia 2006.

We have labelled individual retinal ganglion cells of a New World primate, the
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) with neurobiotin and then measured axon,
soma and dendritic field diameter. A total of 111 cells were analysed (62 parasol
cells, 22 midget cells, 16 hedge cells and 11 small bistratified cells). When all
retinal ganglion cells were grouped together axon diameter was positively
correlated to soma diameter. When analysed according to cell class only midget
cells showed a positive correlation between soma size and mean axon diameter.
Dendritic field diameter and mean axon diameter of both parasol and midget cells 
showed significant correlations. Axon diameter is not constant along the
intraretinal length of the axon and the rate of change in diameter appears to be 
related to the cell class and the initial size of the axon. Midget cell axons
showed a rapid increase of up to 20% over the first 200 microm in contrast to
parasol cell axons which increased more slowly over this distance but then showed
a marked increase in diameter of up to 40% over the next 450 microm. However,
axon diameter did not remain at these increased diameters but decreased at
greater distances from the soma. The degree to which an axon changes its diameter
is related to retinal ganglion cell class and the initial size of the axon. We
postulate that these variations in intraretinal axon diameter may have a direct
influence on conduction velocity and reflect a compensatory mechanism to minimise
spatiotemporal dispersion along the visual pathway.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1007083920206 
PMID: 11054900  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

