

3245. Br J Haematol. 2000 Sep;110(4):985-92.

Chelator-induced iron excretion in iron-overloaded marmosets.

Sergejew T(1), Forgiarini P, Schnebli HP.

Author information: 
(1)Novartis Pharma AG, Basle, Switzerland. thomas.sergejew@pharma.novartis.com

In order to test new orally active iron chelators in a predictive way, a primate 
model has been developed. This model makes use of the marmoset monkey (Callithrix
jacchus) and its overall design is similar to a previously reported monkey model.
However, this new model enables a higher compound throughput and requires lower
amounts of test compound because the animals are much easier to handle and have
much lower body weights. The marmosets were iron-overloaded by three
intraperitoneal injections of iron (III) hydroxide polyisomaltose. For the
iron-balance studies, the animals were kept in metabolic cages and were
maintained on a low-iron diet in order to reduce faecal background. After
compound administration, the excretion of iron in urine and faeces was followed
for 2 d. A series of well-known chelators was tested for validation of the model.
In particular, comparison of the iron-clearing properties of DFO, L1, CP94 and
HBED in marmosets and humans demonstrated the predictive value of the model and
justify our expectation that if iron chelators such as CGP65015, ICL670A and
CGP75254A are active in marmosets, they will be active in humans as well.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2141.2000.02260.x 
PMID: 11054093  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3246. J Neurosci. 2000 Nov 1;20(21):8209-17.

Dopamine release and uptake dynamics within nonhuman primate striatum in vitro.

Cragg SJ(1), Hille CJ, Greenfield SA.

Author information: 
(1)University Department of Pharmacology, Oxford, OX1 3QT, United Kingdom.
stephanie.cragg@pharm.ox.ac.uk

The putamen of the human striatum is a heterogeneous nucleus that contains the
primary site of loss of dopamine (DA) in Parkinson's disease (PD). Furthermore,
different functional domains of the putamen are heterogeneously susceptible to DA
loss, and yet the dynamic regulation of extracellular DA concentration ([DA](o)) 
and comparison between domains has not been explored in the primate brain. In
these studies, DA was measured in real time using fast-scan cyclic voltammetry at
a carbon-fiber microelectrode in vitro in striatal sections from the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). [DA](o) released by a single stimulus pulse varied
threefold along a ventromedial-dorsolateral axis. DA uptake was via the DA
transporter (GBR12909 sensitive, desipramine insensitive). On the basis of data
modeling with simulations of Michaelis-Menten kinetics, rate maximum, V(max),
varied with region: both [DA](o) and V(max) were greatest in regions most
vulnerable in PD. These differences were reflected in part by regional variation 
in DA content. [DA](o), V(max), and regional variation were two- to threefold
greater than in rodent caudatoputamen. In addition, steady-state [DA](o) at
physiological firing rates in primate striatum was controlled by depolarization
frequency, uptake, and presynaptic autoreceptors. Furthermore, regulation of
[DA](o) by these mechanisms differed significantly between limbic- and
motor-associated domains. These data indicate interspecies heterogeneity in
striatal DA dynamics that must be considered when extrapolating behavioral and
drug responses from rodent to the primate brain. Moreover, the heterogeneity
demonstrated within the primate putamen in the availability and dynamic
regulation of DA may be central to understanding DA function in health, cocaine
abuse, and disease.


PMCID: PMC6772736
PMID: 11050144  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

