

325. Anim Sci J. 2020 Jan-Dec;91(1):e13366. doi: 10.1111/asj.13366.

Comparison of the fecal microbiota of two monogastric herbivorous and five
omnivorous mammals.

Kobayashi R(1), Nagaoka K(2), Nishimura N(3), Koike S(4), Takahashi E(5), Niimi
K(5), Murase H(6), Kinjo T(7), Tsukahara T(8), Inoue R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Animal Science, Kyoto Prefectural University, Kyoto, Japan.
(2)Laboratory of Veterinary Physiology, Tokyo University of Agriculture and
Technology, Fuchu, Japan.
(3)College of Agriculture, Academic Institute, Shizuoka University, Shizuoka,
Japan.
(4)Research Faculty of Agriculture, Hokkaido University, Sapporo, Japan.
(5)Research Resources Division, RIKEN Center for Brain Science, Wako, Japan.
(6)Japan Racing Association, Hidaka Training and Research Center, Urakawa-cho,
Japan.
(7)Okinawa Zoo and Museum, Okinawa Zoo Animal Hospital, Okinawa, Japan.
(8)Kyoto Institute of Nutrition and Pathology, Ujitawara-cho, Japan.

Fecal microbiota in seven different monogastric animal species, elephant, horse, 
human, marmoset, mouse, pig and, rat were compared using the same analytical
protocol of 16S rRNA metagenome. Fecal microbiota in herbivores showed higher
alpha diversity than omnivores except for pigs. Additionally, principal
coordinate analysis based on weighted UniFrac distance demonstrated that
herbivores and pigs clustered together, whereas other animal species were
separately aggregated. In view of butyrate- and lactate-producing bacteria,
predominant genera were different depending on animal species. For example, the
abundance of Faecalibacterium, a known butyrate producer, was 8.02% ± 3.22% in
human while it was less than 1% in other animal species. Additionally,
Bifidobacterium was a predominant lactate producer in human and marmoset, while
it was rarely detected in other omnivores. The abundance of lactate-producing
bacteria in herbivores was notably lower than omnivores. On the other hand,
herbivores as well as pig possess Fibrobacter, a cellulolytic bacterium. This
study demonstrated that fecal microbiota in herbivorous animals is similar,
sharing some common features such as higher alpha diversity and higher abundance 
of cellulolytic bacterium. On the other hand, omnivorous animals seem to possess 
unique fecal microbiota. It is of interest that pigs, although omnivore, have
fecal microbiota showing some common features with herbivores.

© 2020 The Authors. Animal Science Journal published by John Wiley & Sons
Australia, Ltd on behalf of Japanese Society of Animal Science.

DOI: 10.1111/asj.13366 
PMCID: PMC7216987
PMID: 32285557  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


326. Neuroimage. 2020 Jul 15;215:116815. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2020.116815. Epub
2020 Apr 9.

Looming and receding visual networks in awake marmosets investigated with fMRI.

Cléry JC(1), Schaeffer DJ(2), Hori Y(2), Gilbert KM(2), Hayrynen LK(2), Gati
JS(2), Menon RS(2), Everling S(3).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Functional and Metabolic Mapping, Robarts Research Institute, The
University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, N6A 5B7, Canada. Electronic
address: jclery@uwo.ca.
(2)Centre for Functional and Metabolic Mapping, Robarts Research Institute, The
University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, N6A 5B7, Canada.
(3)Centre for Functional and Metabolic Mapping, Robarts Research Institute, The
University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, N6A 5B7, Canada; Department of
Physiology and Pharmacology, The University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, 
N6A 5C1, Canada. Electronic address: severlin@uwo.ca.

An object that is looming toward a subject or receding away contains important
information for determining if this object is dangerous, beneficial or harmless. 
This information (motion, direction, identity, time-to-collision, size, velocity)
is analyzed by the brain in order to execute the appropriate behavioral responses
depending on the context: fleeing, freezing, grasping, eating, exploring. In the 
current study, we performed ultra-high-field functional MRI (fMRI) at 9.4T in
awake marmosets to explore the patterns of brain activation elicited by visual
stimuli looming toward or receding away from the monkey. We found that looming
and receding visual stimuli activated a large cortical network in frontal,
parietal, temporal and occipital cortex in areas involved in the analysis of
motion, shape, identity and features of the objects. Looming stimuli strongly
activated a network composed of portions of the pulvinar, superior colliculus,
putamen, parietal, prefrontal and temporal cortical areas. These activations
suggest the existence of a network that processes visual stimuli looming toward
peripersonal space to predict the consequence of these stimuli. Together with
previous studies in macaque monkeys, these findings indicate that this network is
preserved across Old and New World primates.

Copyright © 2020 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2020.116815 
PMID: 32278898  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors
declare no conflict of interest.

