

3261. Biol Reprod. 2000 Oct;63(4):1098-105.

Differential expression of estrogen receptor-alpha and -beta and androgen
receptor in the ovaries of marmosets and humans.

Saunders PT(1), Millar MR, Williams K, Macpherson S, Harkiss D, Anderson RA, Orr 
B, Groome NP, Scobie G, Fraser HM.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Human Reproductive Sciences Unit, Edinburgh, EH3 9ET, United Kingdom.
Oxford Brookes University, Oxford, OX3 0BP, United Kingdom. p.saunders@ed.ac.uk

Estrogens and androgens are essential for the maturation of the ovarian follicle 
and normal fertility in the female. We have used antibodies specific for both
forms of estrogen receptor (alpha [ERalpha] and beta [ERbeta]) and androgen
receptor (AR) to investigate the pattern of receptor expression in ovaries
obtained from women and from a New World primate, the Common marmoset (Callthrix 
jacchus). On Western blots, three antibodies directed against different peptides 
within human ERbeta all recognized recombinant human (h) ERbeta but did not bind 
to recombinant hERalpha. The ERbeta protein was extracted from human ovary and
prostate and marmoset ovary. In marmoset and human ovaries, ERbeta protein was
detected in the nuclei of granulosa cells in all sizes of follicle (both before
and after formation of the antrum), and it was also detected in thecal cells,
corpora lutea, surface epithelium, and stroma. In contrast, ERalpha protein was
not detected in the nuclei of granulosa cells in preantral follicles, was
low/absent from stromal and thecal cells, but was expressed in granulosa cells of
antral follicles and in the surface epithelium. The pattern of expression of AR
protein more closely resembled that of ERbeta than ERalpha. In conclusion, three 
independent antibodies have demonstrated convincingly that ERbeta is expressed in
a wide range of cells in the primate ovary. Granulosa cells in preantral
follicles could contain ERbeta:beta dimers. In antral follicles, however, ERalpha
is also expressed, and the formation of homo- or heterodimers containing ERalpha 
may influence the pattern of gene activation within these cells.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod63.4.1098 
PMID: 10993832  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3262. Exp Neurol. 2000 Oct;165(2):306-26.

Cyto- and chemoarchitecture of basal forebrain cholinergic neurons in the common 
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Wu CK(1), Hersh LB, Geula C.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Neurodegenerative and Aging Research, Harvard Medical School,
Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA.

The cyto- and chemoarchitecture of basal forebrain cholinergic neurons (BFCN) was
investigated in the lower primate, the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). A
large population of magnocellular, hyperchromic, and choline acetyltransferase
(ChAT)-positive neurons was detected in the marmoset basal forebrain. The
distribution of these neurons was similar to those in higher primates. Thus,
ChAT-positive neurons were observed in the medial septum (Ch2), the vertical
(Ch2) and horizontal (Ch3) limbs of the diagonal band of Broca, and the nucleus
basalis of Meynert (Ch4). The Ch4 complex was relatively well differentiated and 
displayed distinct sectors. We detected anterior (Ch4a, with a medial and a
lateral subdivision), intermediate (Ch4i, with a dorsal and a ventral
subdivision), and posterior (Ch4p) sectors in the marmoset Ch4. The Ch4i was
relatively small while the Ch4p was large. Similar to the rodent, the marmoset
Ch1 extended quite a distance posteriorly, and the Ch4p displayed a major
interstitial component distributed within the globus pallidus, its medullary
laminae, and the internal capsule. Virtually all of the marmoset BFCN displayed
acetylcholinesterase activity, and low affinity (p75(NTR)) and high affinity
(Trk) neurotrophin receptor immunoreactivity. A majority contained
immunoreactivity for calbindin-D(28K) and calretinin. Many of the Ch4 neurons
also displayed tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity. The BFCN lacked galanin
immunoreactivity, but were innervated by galanin-positive fibers. None of the
marmoset BFCN were NADPH-d-positive. Thus, the BFCN display major anatomical and 
biochemical differences in the marmoset when compared with higher primates. The
marmoset BFCN also display many characteristics common to other primates. This
fact, combined with the relatively short life span of the marmoset, indicates
that this species may be ideal for studies of age-related changes in the BFCN.

Copyright 2000 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/exnr.2000.7468 
PMID: 10993691  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

