

3263. Am J Primatol. 2000 Sep;52(1):31-46.

Post-conflict affiliation in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus jacchus).

Westlund K(1), Ljungberg T, Borefelt U, Abrahamsson C.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Ethology, Department of Zoology, Stockholm University, Sweden.
Karolina.Westlund@zoologi.su.se

Post-conflict (PC) affiliation has been demonstrated in a number of Old World
monkeys and apes, but very little is known about the occurrence of the phenomenon
in New World monkeys. This study examined 282 PC interactions after spontaneous
conflicts around feeding time in two family groups (N = 12) of captive common
marmosets, Callithrix jacchus jacchus. We found an overall corrected conciliatory
tendency of 31%. Selective attraction was seen: former opponents met
significantly more often in PCs than in matched controls (MCs) (27% and 16%,
respectively). There was no difference in the occurrence of PC affiliation
between dyads consisting of parent-offspring constellations compared to
offspring-offspring constellations. PC affiliative behaviors were seen in the
first three minutes following conflict termination, and consisted mainly of
proximity, play invitations, and food transfer. Notably, former opponents
remained within arm's reach after 17% of conflicts. Affiliation was more likely
to follow after conflicts involving play issues. The functional importance of the
PC affiliation in marmosets remains to be examined.

DOI: 10.1002/1098-2345(200009)52:1<31::AID-AJP3>3.0.CO;2-Z 
PMID: 10993136  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3264. Comp Med. 2000 Feb;50(1):59-68.

Fatal lymphoproliferative disease associated with a novel gammaherpesvirus in a
captive population of common marmosets.

Ramer JC(1), Garber RL, Steele KE, Boyson JF, O'Rourke C, Thomson JA.

Author information: 
(1)The Wisconsin Regional Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin,
Madison, USA.

Erratum in
    Comp Med. 2000 Aug;50(4):455.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Callitrichids (marmosets and tamarins) are extremely
susceptible to experimental tumor induction by herpesviruses native to other
primate species. A colony of common marmosets developed a syndrome of weight
loss, inappetence, diarrhea, and in several animals, palpable abdominal masses.
METHODS: Marmosets in the colony were subjected to histologic examination and
serologic testing for Epstein-Barr virus (EBV). The DNA from tumors that
developed in the marmosets was subjected to consensus primer polymerase chain
reaction (PCR) analysis designed to amplify conserved regions of herpesvirus
genomes.
RESULTS: The mesenteric lymph nodes and intestinal mucosa were consistently
infiltrated by principally B lymphocytes, which often obliterated the normal
architecture. Of 84 clinically normal marmosets, 52 were seropositive for EBV.
The tumor DNA contained previously unreported herpesvirus sequences closely
related to but distinct from those of EBV, Herpesvirus papio, and these
lymphocryptovirus, a novel gammaherpesvirus. Results of PCR analysis of
circulating lymphocytes from EBV-positive, clinically normal marmosets were
negative for EBV antibodies and were positive for marmoset lymphocryptovirus; PCR
analysis of circulating lymphocytes from EBV-negative marmosets yielded negative 
results for EBV and this novel marmoset lymphocryptovirus.
CONCLUSION: This novel gammaherpesvirus possibly associated with tumor
development may have important management implications for captive callitrichids.


PMID: 10987671  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

