

3264. Comp Med. 2000 Feb;50(1):59-68.

Fatal lymphoproliferative disease associated with a novel gammaherpesvirus in a
captive population of common marmosets.

Ramer JC(1), Garber RL, Steele KE, Boyson JF, O'Rourke C, Thomson JA.

Author information: 
(1)The Wisconsin Regional Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin,
Madison, USA.

Erratum in
    Comp Med. 2000 Aug;50(4):455.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Callitrichids (marmosets and tamarins) are extremely
susceptible to experimental tumor induction by herpesviruses native to other
primate species. A colony of common marmosets developed a syndrome of weight
loss, inappetence, diarrhea, and in several animals, palpable abdominal masses.
METHODS: Marmosets in the colony were subjected to histologic examination and
serologic testing for Epstein-Barr virus (EBV). The DNA from tumors that
developed in the marmosets was subjected to consensus primer polymerase chain
reaction (PCR) analysis designed to amplify conserved regions of herpesvirus
genomes.
RESULTS: The mesenteric lymph nodes and intestinal mucosa were consistently
infiltrated by principally B lymphocytes, which often obliterated the normal
architecture. Of 84 clinically normal marmosets, 52 were seropositive for EBV.
The tumor DNA contained previously unreported herpesvirus sequences closely
related to but distinct from those of EBV, Herpesvirus papio, and these
lymphocryptovirus, a novel gammaherpesvirus. Results of PCR analysis of
circulating lymphocytes from EBV-positive, clinically normal marmosets were
negative for EBV antibodies and were positive for marmoset lymphocryptovirus; PCR
analysis of circulating lymphocytes from EBV-negative marmosets yielded negative 
results for EBV and this novel marmoset lymphocryptovirus.
CONCLUSION: This novel gammaherpesvirus possibly associated with tumor
development may have important management implications for captive callitrichids.


PMID: 10987671  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3265. Genome. 2000 Aug;43(4):642-8.

Evolution of an Alu DNA element of type Sx in the lineage of primates and the
origin of an associated tetranucleotide microsatellite.

Crouau-Roy B(1), Clisson I.

Author information: 
(1)Génétique des populations, CESAC, UMR C5576, Toulouse, France. bcrouau@cict.fr

A 394-bp DNA fragment, which in human is on chromosome 6 near the MOG (myelin
oligodendrocyte glycoprotein) gene and encompasses an Alu element and an
associated tetranucleotide microsatellite, was sequenced from a large range of
primate species to follow its evolutionary divergence and to understand the
origin of the microsatellite. This Alu element is found at the same orthologous
position in all primates sequenced, but the tetranucleotide repeat is present
only in Catarrhini between the 3'-oligo(dA) of the Alu element and the 3'
flanking direct repeat. Little intraspecific variation was found. Sequence
identity values for this orthologous primate Alu averaged 90% (82-99%) with
transitions comprising between 70% and 100% of the observed nucleotide
substitutions. Although the insertion of the Alu element predates the separation 
of these species, the original sequence of the site of integration can still be
identified. This identification of the direct repeats suggests an active role of 
the oligo(dA) of the Alu element in the origin of the tetranucleotide repeats.
The microsatellite probably appeared after the insertion of the Alu element,
early in the lineage leading to the common ancestor of the hominoids and the Old 
World monkeys.

DOI: 10.1139/g00-033 
PMID: 10984176  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

