

3278. An Acad Bras Cienc. 2000 Jun;72(2):165-72.

The current status of the New World monkey phylogeny.

Schneider H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Universidade Federal do Pará, Bragança, Brazil. hschneider@eletronet.com.br

Four DNA datasets were combined in tandem (6700 bp) and Maximum parsimony and
Neighbor-Joining analyses were performed. The results suggest three groups
emerging almost at the same time: Atelidae, Pitheciidae and Cebidae. The total
analysis strongly supports the monophyly of the Cebidae family, grouping Aotus,
Cebus and Saimiri with the small callitrichines. In the callitrichines, the data 
link Cebuela to Callithrix, place Callimico as a sister group of
Callithrix/Cebuella, and show Saguinus to be the earliest offshoot of the
callitrichines. In the family Pithecidae, Callicebus is the basal genus. Finally,
combined molecular data showed congruent branching in the atelid clade, setting
up Alouatta as the basal lineage and Brachyteles-Lagothrix as a sister group and 
the most derived branch. Two major points remain to be clarified in the
platyrrhine phylogeny: (i) what is the exact branching pattern of Aotus, Cebus,
Saimiri and the small callitrichines, and (ii), which two of these three
lineages, pitheciines, atelines or cebids, are more closely related?

DOI: 10.1590/s0001-37652000000200005 
PMID: 10932115  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3279. Horm Behav. 2000 Aug;38(1):1-12.

Pre- and postpartum sex steroids in female marmosets (Callithrix kuhlii): is
there a link with infant survivorship and maternal behavior?

Fite JE(1), French JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska at Omaha, 68182-0274, USA.

Recent studies in primates have suggested that pre- and peripartum sex steroid
hormones may be important determinants of maternal behavior and motivation, since
higher levels of prepartum estrogen are associated with maternal competency and
infant survivorship. To test the cross-species generality of this finding, we
monitored excreted profiles of estradiol (E(2)), progesterone metabolites
(pregnanediol glucuronide; PdG), and E(2):PdG ratios throughout pregnancy in
black tufted-ear marmosets (Callithrix kuhlii). Additionally, we wanted to
determine the extent to which variability in maternal carrying effort was related
to hormonal factors and relative levels of maternal experience. For six females, 
hormonal profiles were determined by enzyme immunoassay for two pregnancies, one 
in which infants survived at least 2 weeks postpartum and one in which infants
did not survive. Our within-subjects analyses revealed significant differences in
mean prepartum E(2) levels for females in the different infant survival
conditions. In contrast to previous findings, however, females exhibited
significantly higher prepartum E(2) levels when their infants did not survive a
minimum of 2 weeks postpartum, relative to when their infants did survive.
Maternal carrying effort was also negatively and significantly correlated with
prepartum E(2) levels. Unlike previous reports in callitrichid primates, then,
our data suggest that high concentrations of prepartum E(2) in callitrichid
primates are not necessarily associated with competent maternal behavior and may 
instead be associated with poor infant survivorship and inadequate maternal care.
Further, our results appear to be convergent with research focusing on human
mothers and may represent a common underlying mechanism linking prepartum
estrogen and postpartum affect and behavior in some primates.

Copyright 2000 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/hbeh.2000.1607 
PMID: 10924281  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

