

3280. J Anat. 2000 May;196 ( Pt 4):597-607.

Aspects of PET imaging relevant to the assessment of striatal transplantation in 
Huntington's disease.

Besret L(1), Kendall AL, Dunnett SB.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Brain Repair, University of Cambridge, UK.

Proper assessment of outcome in clinical trials of neural transplantation
requires both biochemical and imaging indices of graft survival, and behavioural 
and physiological indices of graft function. For transplantation in Huntington's 
disease, a variety of ligands that are selective for striatal degeneration and
graft-derived replacement are available, notably ligands of dopaminergic
receptors on striatal neurons. However, the validity of such ligands is
potentially compromised by adjunctive drug therapies (e.g. neuroleptics) given to
patients in the course of normal clinical care. We review the present state of
experimental and clinical understanding of the selectivity of available ligands
for striatal imaging, their interaction with other drug treatments, and
strategies for refining valid assessment protocols in patients.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1469-7580.2000.19640597.x 
PMCID: PMC1468100
PMID: 10923990  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3281. Exp Neurol. 2000 Aug;164(2):371-83.

Distribution of calbindin, parvalbumin, and calretinin immunoreactivity in the
reticular thalamic nucleus of the marmoset: evidence for a medial leaflet of
incertal neurons.

FitzGibbon T(1), Solomon SG, Goodchild AK.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Biomedical Research, The University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW,
2006, Australia.

The placement of the reticular thalamic nucleus (RTN) between the dorsal thalamus
and the cortex and the inhibitory nature of reticulothalamic projections has led 
to suggestions that it "gates" the flow of sensory information to the cortex. The
New World diurnal monkey, the marmoset, Callithrix jacchus is emerging as an
important "model primate" for the study of sensory processing. We have examined
the distribution of Nissl-stained somata and calbindin, parvalbumin, and
calretinin immunoreactivity in the ventral thalamus for comparison with other
species. Cells were labeled using standard immunohistochemistry, ExtraAvidin-HRP,
and diaminobenzidine reaction products. The RTN is constituted by a largely
homogeneous population of parvalbumin immunoreactive cells with respect to size
and orientation. Calbindin and calretinin immunoreactive cells were only found
along the medial edge of the RTN adjacent to the external medullary lamina of the
dorsal thalamus and laterally near the ventral RTN. These cells were considered
to be part of the zona incerta (ZI). The marmoset ZI could be subdivided into
dorsal and ventral regions on the basis of its immunoreactivity to calcium
binding proteins. Both the ZI and nucleus subthalamicus Luysi contained scattered
calbindin and calretinin immunoreactive cells with well-defined dendritic
processes. These cells were clearly different to cells in the dorsal thalamus.
Parvalbumin immunoreactive cells in RTN, ZI, and subthalamic nucleus were on
average larger than neurons positive for the other calcium binding proteins.
Future studies reporting the afferent and efferent projections to the RTN must
view their results in terms of the close apposition of RTN and ZI somata.

Copyright 2000 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/exnr.2000.7436 
PMID: 10915576  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

