

3285. Vis Neurosci. 2000 May-Jun;17(3):437-48.

Distribution of the alpha1 subunit of the GABA(A) receptor on midget and parasol 
ganglion cells in the retina of the common marmoset Callithrix jacchus.

Macri J(1), Martin PR, Grünert U.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Institute for Biomedical Research, The University
of Sydney, NSW, Australia.

The inhibitory neurotransmitter gamma aminobutyric acid (GABA) has been shown to 
influence the responses of ganglion cells in the mammalian retina. Consistently, 
GABA(A) receptor subunits have been localized to different ganglion cell types.
In this study, the distribution of the alpha1 subunit of the GABA(A) receptor on 
the dendrites of midget and parasol ganglion cells was investigated
quantitatively in the retina of a New World monkey, the marmoset. Ganglion cells 
were injected with Neurobiotin in a live in vitro retinal whole-mount
preparation. Retinal pieces were then processed with an antibody against the
alpha1 subunit of the GABA(A) receptor. Strong punctate immunoreactivity
indicative of synaptic localization is present in the ON and OFF sublamina of the
inner plexiform layer. Many of the immunoreactive puncta coincide with the
dendrites of both midget and parasol ganglion cells. Immunoreactive puncta are
present on distal and proximal dendrites of ON and OFF cells of both ganglion
cell types. On average, parasol cells show a slight increase in the spatial
density of immunoreactive puncta with distance from the soma, whereas the density
of immunoreactive puncta on midget cells stays even. Parasol ganglion cells show 
a slightly higher average density of immunoreactive puncta (0.083 puncta/microm
dendrite) than midget cells (0.054 puncta/microm dendrite).

DOI: 10.1017/s0952523800173109 
PMID: 10910110  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3286. Vis Neurosci. 2000 May-Jun;17(3):345-52.

Effect of monocular deprivation on NMDAR1 immunostaining in ocular dominance
columns of the marmoset Callithrix jacchus.

Fonta C(1), Chappert C, Imbert M.

Author information: 
(1)Centre de Recherche Cerveau et Cognition, UMR 5549 Centre National de la
Recherche Scientifique/Université Paul Sabatier, Faculté de Médecine Rangueil,
Toulouse, France. fonta@cerco.ups-tlse.fr

We previously showed that immunoreactivity to N-Methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)
receptors in primary visual cortex of Callithrix jacchus is regulated by visual
activity during the second and third postnatal months (Fonta et al., 1997). The
purpose of the present study was to show that the columnar pattern of high and
low NMDAR1 immunoreactivity observed in monocularly deprived animals corresponds 
to ocular dominance columns linked to the nondeprived and deprived eye,
respectively. We compared cortical distribution of NMDAR1 receptors and the
projection zones of thalamic afferents, revealed by transneuronal transport of
tritiated proline, in 2-month-old, either monocularly deprived or control,
marmosets. The data show that ocular dominance columns exist in 2-month-old
marmosets and that a 2-week monocular deprivation by means of eyelid suture leads
to a modification of the thalamo-cortical afferents organization. Experiments of 
neuronal tracing and immunohistochemistry performed on the same animals
demonstrated that cortical domains with decreased NMDAR1 level correspond to the 
deprived eye columns. These investigations, coupled to the previous results,
strongly suggest that the NMDA receptors, regulated by visual activity, are
involved in the refining of ocular dominance columns in the primary visual cortex
of juvenile marmoset.

DOI: 10.1017/s0952523800173031 
PMID: 10910103  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

