

3287. J Neural Transm (Vienna). 1999;106(7-8):663-83.

Chronic supranigral infusion of BDNF in normal and MPTP-treated common marmosets.

Pearce RK(1), Costa S, Jenner P, Marsden CD.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Diseases Research Centre, Biomedical Sciences Division,
King's College London, and The National Hospital for Neurology, United Kingdom.

BDNF or vehicle were administered by unilateral supranigral infusion in normal
and chronically lesioned MPTP-treated common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) for
four weeks and locomotor activity, disability and response to apomorphine were
assessed with nigral TH, GFAP and GAD immunoreactivity and striatal [3H]mazindol 
autoradiography. Selective contraversive orientation and ipsilateral neglect
evolved in MPTP-treated marmosets receiving BDNF with no significant difference
in disability or locomotor activity when compared to the vehicle-infused group.
Apomorphine produced an ipsiversive rotational bias in BDNF-treated animals. In
normal animals infused with BDNF contralateral neglect, ipsiversive turning,
postural instability and ataxia rapidly evolved. In MPTP-treated marmosets BDNF
caused increased ipsilateral striatal [3H]mazindol binding with increased somatic
size and staining intensity in GAD-immunoreactive cells and a 10-20% loss of
nigral TH-immunoreactive cells with increased GFAP staining. In normal common
marmosets, both vehicle and BDNF infusion decreased nigral TH-immunoreactivity.
Chronic supranigral infusion of BDNF alters motor behaviour and spatial attention
in MPTP-treated marmosets which may reflect altered function in residual nigral
dopaminergic neurons and brainstem GABAergic neurons and in normal animals
produces behavioural and histological signs of nigrostriatal hypofunction.

DOI: 10.1007/s007020050188 
PMID: 10907726  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3288. J Vet Med Sci. 2000 Jun;62(6):607-14.

Thyroid hyperactivity induced by methimazole, spironolactone and phenobarbital in
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus): histopathology, plasma thyroid hormone levels and
hepatic T4 metabolism.

Kurata Y(1), Wako Y, Tanaka K, Inoue Y, Makinodan F.

Author information: 
(1)Mitsubishi Chemical Safety Institute Ltd., Kashima-gun, Ibaraki, Japan.

To determine drug-induced hyperfunction of marmoset thyroids due to inhibition of
synthesis or enhancement of metabolic elimination of thyroid hormones, males were
orally administered 10 and 30 mg/kg/day methimazole (MMI), 30 and 100 mg/kg/day
spironolactone (SPL), or 50 mg/kg/day phenobarbital (PB) for 4 weeks. MMI caused 
marked hypertrophy of follicular epithelial cells in accordance with a
significant decrease in the plasma thyroxin (T4) level. Hypertrophied epithelial 
cells were filled with dilated rough endoplasmic reticulum and reabsorbed
intracellular colloids, and the luminal surface was covered with abundant
microvilli. The colloid included vacuoles positive to anti T4 immuno-staining.
SPL and PB also caused similar histomorphological changes, although they were
less severe than those due to MMI and were not clearly associated with decrease
in the plasma T4 levels. Hepatic T4 UDPGT activities tended to increase due to
SPL and PB treatment, however, which were not so significant as increases in
microsomal cytochrome P-450 contents. Some animals treated with SPL and PB showed
marked increases in thyroid weights due to inactive dilated follicles. In
conclusion, hyperactivity of thyroid follicles was induced in marmosets not only 
due to inhibition of T4 synthesis produced by MMI but also because of enhancement
of hepatic T4 elimination produced by SPL and PB. However, hypertrophic effects
of SPL and PB were less severe than MMI, because plasma T4 levels were maintained
at almost pretreatment or control levels after SPL or PB treatment.

DOI: 10.1292/jvms.62.607 
PMID: 10907687  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

