

3291. J Virol. 2000 Aug;74(16):7331-7.

Analysis of gene expression in a human cell line stably transduced with
herpesvirus saimiri.

Hall KT(1), Giles MS, Goodwin DJ, Calderwood MA, Carr IM, Stevenson AJ, Markham
AF, Whitehouse A.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Medicine Unit, University of Leeds, St. James's University Hospital,
Leeds LS9 7TF, United Kingdom.

Herpesvirus saimiri (HVS) is the prototype gamma-2 herpesvirus; it has
significant homology to the human gammaherpesviruses Kaposi's sarcoma-associated 
virus and Epstein-Barr virus and the murine gammaherpesvirus murine herpesvirus
68. HVS causes a persistent asymptomatic infection in its natural host, the
squirrel monkey. Both subgroups A and C possess the ability to immortalize common
marmoset T lymphocytes to interleukin-2-independent proliferation. However, only 
subgroup C is capable of transforming human, rabbit, and rhesus monkey
lymphocytes in vitro. In addition, HVS can stably transduce a variety of human
cell lines where the virus persists as a nonintegrating circular episome. In this
study, we have developed a system in which the HVS DNA is stably maintained as a 
nonintegrated circular episome in the human lung carcinoma cell line A549. Virus 
production can be reactivated using chemical inducing agents, including
tetradecanoyl phorbol acetate and n-butyrate, suggesting that the infection in
human A549 cells is latent. To analyze virus gene expression in these stably
transduced cells, Northern blot analysis was performed using a series of probes
produced from restriction fragments spanning the entire coding region of the HVS 
genome. This demonstrated that an adjacent set of genes containing open reading
frames (ORFs) 71 to 73 are expressed in this stably transduced cell line.
Moreover, these genes are transcribed as a polycistronic mRNA species produced
from a common promoter upstream of ORF 73. This model may serve as a useful tool 
in the further analysis of the role of ORFs 71 to 73 in gamma-2 herpesvirus
latency.

DOI: 10.1128/jvi.74.16.7331-7337.2000 
PMCID: PMC112253
PMID: 10906186  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3292. Chem Biol. 2000 Jul;7(7):493-504.

Structure-based drug design: the discovery of novel nonpeptide orally active
inhibitors of human renin.

Rahuel J(1), Rasetti V, Maibaum J, Rüeger H, Göschke R, Cohen NC, Stutz S, Cumin 
F, Fuhrer W, Wood JM, Grütter MG.

Author information: 
(1)Core Technology Area, Novartis Pharma AG, Metabolic and Cardiovascular
Diseases, Basle, Switzerland.

BACKGROUND: The aspartic proteinase renin plays an important physiological role
in the regulation of blood pressure. It catalyses the first step in the
conversion of angiotensinogen to the hormone angiotensin II. In the past, potent 
peptide inhibitors of renin have been developed, but none of these compounds has 
made it to the end of clinical trials. Our primary aim was to develop novel
nonpeptide inhibitors. Based on the available structural information concerning
renin-substrate interactions, we synthesized inhibitors in which the peptide
portion was replaced by lipophilic moieties that interact with the large
hydrophobic S1/S3-binding pocket in renin.
RESULTS: Crystal structure analysis of renin-inhibitor complexes combined with
computational methods were employed in the medicinal-chemistry optimisation
process. Structure analysis revealed that the newly designed inhibitors bind as
predicted to the S1/S3 pocket. In addition, however, these compounds interact
with a hitherto unrecognised large, distinct, sub-pocket of the enzyme that
extends from the S3-binding site towards the hydrophobic core of the enzyme.
Binding to this S3(sp) sub-pocket was essential for high binding affinity. This
unprecedented binding mode guided the drug-design process in which the mostly
hydrophobic interactions within subsite S3(sp) were optimised.
CONCLUSIONS: Our design approach led to compounds with high in vitro affinity and
specificity for renin, favourable bioavailability and excellent oral efficacy in 
lowering blood pressure in primates. These renin inhibitors are therefore
potential therapeutic agents for the treatment of hypertension and related
cardiovascular diseases.

DOI: 10.1016/s1074-5521(00)00134-4 
PMID: 10903938  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

