

3292. Chem Biol. 2000 Jul;7(7):493-504.

Structure-based drug design: the discovery of novel nonpeptide orally active
inhibitors of human renin.

Rahuel J(1), Rasetti V, Maibaum J, Rüeger H, Göschke R, Cohen NC, Stutz S, Cumin 
F, Fuhrer W, Wood JM, Grütter MG.

Author information: 
(1)Core Technology Area, Novartis Pharma AG, Metabolic and Cardiovascular
Diseases, Basle, Switzerland.

BACKGROUND: The aspartic proteinase renin plays an important physiological role
in the regulation of blood pressure. It catalyses the first step in the
conversion of angiotensinogen to the hormone angiotensin II. In the past, potent 
peptide inhibitors of renin have been developed, but none of these compounds has 
made it to the end of clinical trials. Our primary aim was to develop novel
nonpeptide inhibitors. Based on the available structural information concerning
renin-substrate interactions, we synthesized inhibitors in which the peptide
portion was replaced by lipophilic moieties that interact with the large
hydrophobic S1/S3-binding pocket in renin.
RESULTS: Crystal structure analysis of renin-inhibitor complexes combined with
computational methods were employed in the medicinal-chemistry optimisation
process. Structure analysis revealed that the newly designed inhibitors bind as
predicted to the S1/S3 pocket. In addition, however, these compounds interact
with a hitherto unrecognised large, distinct, sub-pocket of the enzyme that
extends from the S3-binding site towards the hydrophobic core of the enzyme.
Binding to this S3(sp) sub-pocket was essential for high binding affinity. This
unprecedented binding mode guided the drug-design process in which the mostly
hydrophobic interactions within subsite S3(sp) were optimised.
CONCLUSIONS: Our design approach led to compounds with high in vitro affinity and
specificity for renin, favourable bioavailability and excellent oral efficacy in 
lowering blood pressure in primates. These renin inhibitors are therefore
potential therapeutic agents for the treatment of hypertension and related
cardiovascular diseases.

DOI: 10.1016/s1074-5521(00)00134-4 
PMID: 10903938  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3293. Clin Neuropharmacol. 2000 May-Jun;23(3):133-42.

Transdermal administration of piribedil reverses MPTP-induced motor deficits in
the common marmoset.

Smith LA(1), Jackson MG, Bonhomme C, Chezaubernard C, Pearce RK, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Diseases Research Centre, Guy's, King's and St. Thomas'
School of Biomedical Sciences, King's College, London, UK.

The ability of transdermal administration of the dopamine D2/D3 agonist piribedil
(1-[3,4-methylenedioxybenzyl)]-4-[(2-pyrimidinyl)]piperazine) to reverse
hypokinesia and other motor deficits observed in MPTP-treated common marmosets
was investigated. Piribedil (2.5-10.0 mg/animal), applied directly to the skin of
the abdomen as a paste, produced a long-lasting and concentration-dependent
reversal of motor deficits. The antiparkinsonian actions of piribedil occurred
within 10 minutes of drug administration and lasted as long as 10 hours.
Transdermally applied piribedil produced a pattern of locomotor activity
characteristic of normal motor behavior in this species. Symptoms of nausea
(marked excessive salivation, retching, and/or vomiting) were not observed after 
transdermal application of piribedil. Additionally, pretreatment with the
peripheral dopamine antagonist domperidone enhanced the antiparkinsonian effects 
of piribedil. Application to the skin of monolayer or bilayer patches impregnated
with piribedil also produced a marked increase in locomotor activity and reversal
of motor deficits. After application of various patch fractions (whole, one-half,
or one-fourth), the increase in locomotor activity and reversal of disability
correlated well with the surface area of skin covered. Measurement of serum
levels of piribedil after single application of bilayer patches showed a positive
relationship between drug levels and antiparkinsonian activity. Repeated daily
application of piribedil bilayer patches for 5 days to MPTP-treated common
marmosets primed to show dyskinesia by previous exposure to L-Dopa produced
antiparkinsonian activity accompanied by dyskinetic movements. Transdermal
administration of dopamine agonists such as piribedil may provide a useful means 
of producing a long-lasting reversal of motor deficits in Parkinson's disease
while avoiding acute adverse effects such as nausea.

DOI: 10.1097/00002826-200005000-00002 
PMID: 10895396  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

