

3295. Cancer Lett. 2000 Aug 31;157(1):45-50.

Carcinoembryonic antigen family of adhesion molecules in the cotton top tamarin
(Saguinus oedipus).

Tobi M(1), Chintalapani S, Kithier K, Clapp N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, John D. Dingell VAMC, Center for Molecular Medicine,
Wayne State University, Detroit, MI 48201, USA. tobi.martin@allen-park.va.gov

Humans and the cotton top tamarin, a model for colitis and colorectal cancer,
share carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) moieties. We quantified CEA in colonic
washings and extracts in both, and CEA bands were confirmed by Western blot. We
compared CEA-family expression in tissues and serum in the tamarin with that of
the common marmoset, which develops colitis but not cancer. CEA levels are higher
in tamarin washings compared with humans, and higher than in marmosets extracts
(P<0.005). CEA molecular species appear to be specific, and human CEA-family
member epitopes are also found in these primates. The higher CEA levels in the
tamarin may reflect the overall higher cancer prevalence.

DOI: 10.1016/s0304-3835(00)00482-1 
PMID: 10893441  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3296. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2000 Jul;41(8):2050-8.

Decreased proteoglycan synthesis associated with form deprivation myopia in
mature primate eyes.

Rada JA(1), Nickla DL, Troilo D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy and Cell Biology, University of North Dakota School of
Medicine and Health Sciences, Grand Forks 58202-9037, USA.
jarada@medicine.nodak.edu

PURPOSE: The rate of proteoglycan synthesis was measured in the scleras of
adolescent marmosets that had undergone monocular form deprivation to
characterize the scleral extracellular matrix changes associated with the
development of myopia in a mature primate.
METHODS: Form deprivation myopia was induced in adolescent marmosets by
unilateral lid suture for an average of 108 days. After the lids were reopened,
the axial lengths and refractions were measured at intervals for up to 39 weeks. 
At the end of the study period, sclera were isolated and immediately radiolabeled
with 35SO4 in organ culture. Proteoglycan synthesis rates were determined by
measurement of 35SO4 incorporation into cetylpyridinium chloride-precipitable
glycosaminoglycans after digestion of the scleral samples with proteinase K.
Collagen content was determined by measurement of total hydroxyproline in scleral
digests. Newly synthesized proteoglycans were separated on a Sepharose CL-4B
molecular sieve column and identified by their core proteins by Western blot
analyses.
RESULTS: Lid suture resulted in myopia due to a significant increase in vitreous 
chamber depth. After Sepharose CL-4B chromatography, newly synthesized scleral
proteoglycans isolated from normal, form-deprived, and contralateral control
eyes, resolved into one major peak that eluted in the position of decorin, a
small chondroitin-dermatan sulfate proteoglycan. After digestion of the major
peak with chondroitinase ABC, an approximately 45-kDa core protein was detected
by Western blot analyses, confirming the presence of decorin. Form deprivation
resulted in a significant reduction in the rate of proteoglycan synthesis in the 
posterior sclera (-43.55%, P < or = 0.001). Proteoglycan synthesis was also
significantly reduced in the posterior sclera of form-deprived eyes relative to
total collagen content (-36.19%, P < or = 0.01) and was negatively correlated
with the rate of vitreous chamber elongation in the deprived eye (r2 = 0.779, P <
or = 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Significant extracellular matrix remodeling occurs in the posterior 
sclera of the adolescent primate eye during vitreous chamber elongation and
myopia development. The negative correlation between vitreous chamber elongation 
rates and the synthesis rates of decorin in form-deprived eyes suggests that
proteoglycan synthesis within the posterior sclera plays a role in the regulation
of ocular size and refraction in the adolescent marmoset.


PMID: 10892842  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

