

3297. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2000 Jul;41(8):2043-9.

Form deprivation myopia in mature common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Troilo D(1), Nickla DL, Wildsoet CF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Science and Disease, New England College of
Optometry, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA. troilod@ne-optometry.edu

PURPOSE: Experimental manipulations of visual experience are known to affect the 
growth of the eye and the development of refractive state in a variety of species
including human and nonhuman primates. For example, it is well established that
visual form deprivation causes elongation of the eye and myopia. The effects of
such manipulations have generally been examined in neonatal or juvenile animals. 
Whether adolescent common marmosets (a new world primate) are susceptible to form
deprivation myopia was studied.
METHODS: Five adolescent marmosets were used in this study. Monocular form
deprivation was induced by lid closure for 12 to 20 weeks, starting between 299
and 315 days of age. The effects of deprivation were assessed with keratometry,
A-scan ultrasonography, and cycloplegic refractions. Both eyes (treated and
fellow control) were measured before lid-closure, at the end of the deprivation
period, and several times over the following 8 to 12 weeks.
RESULTS: Adolescent marmosets are susceptible to visual form deprivation myopia. 
The experimental eyes showed significant axial elongation and myopia relative to 
the fellow control eyes. These changes were smaller, however, than those observed
in younger eyes deprived for comparable periods. Like juvenile animals, the
adolescent marmosets did not show recovery from myopia over the period monitored.
CONCLUSIONS: The period for susceptibility to form deprivation myopia in the
marmoset monkey extends beyond the early developmental period when ocular growth 
is rapid and emmetropization normally takes place. Visual form deprivation in
adolescent marmosets with adult-sized eyes results in increased ocular growth and
myopia. These data suggest that visual factors may influence the growth and
refractive development of the human eye after puberty and may be involved in
late-onset myopia.


PMID: 10892841  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3298. Exp Anim. 2000 Apr;49(2):91-6.

Partial hepatectomy of marmoset: clinical and pathological effects and utility in
microsomal enzyme analysis.

Kurata Y(1), Makinodan F, Matsumoto J, Toyota N, Tanaka K.

Author information: 
(1)Mitsubishi Chemical Safety Institute Ltd., Ibaraki, Japan.

Liver biopsy based on a partial hepatectomy technique (shearing) was performed in
10 common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). This is a preliminary study to evaluate
the effects of drugs on hepatic microsomal enzymes: cytochrome P-450 and T4
uridine diphosphate glucuronyl transferase (T4-UDPGT), by comparing
post-treatment values with pre-treatment values individually with a limited
number of animals. The effects of the biopsy on clinical findings and liver
pathology were evaluated during the first 5 post-surgical weeks. Although the
plasma aspartate aminotransferase (AST) activities tended to decrease from 1 to 4
weeks post-surgery, no abnormality was noted in clinical sign, body weight, the
hematocrit value or other blood chemical values. At necropsy, adhesion of the
sheared site of the liver to the parietal peritoneum or the small intestine was
evident in 2 of the 4 marmosets. Microscopic examination revealed focal fibrosis 
in the liver, but it was localized around the sheared site. Based on the above
results, it was concluded that liver biopsy must be performed more than one month
before administration of the drug to be tested. The biopsy samples and the whole 
liver samples obtained at autopsy were subjected to analysis of microsomal
protein content, cytochrome P-450 content and T4-UDPGT activity. In comparison
with the values from the whole liver samples, those from the biopsy samples
showed no significant difference. Furthermore, there was a significant
correlation rather than difference between matched values. This suggested that
partial hepatectomy is a useful method for obtaining pretreatment values in liver
biochemistry to evaluate the effects of drug-treatment in individual animals.

DOI: 10.1538/expanim.49.91 
PMID: 10889947  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

