

3298. Exp Anim. 2000 Apr;49(2):91-6.

Partial hepatectomy of marmoset: clinical and pathological effects and utility in
microsomal enzyme analysis.

Kurata Y(1), Makinodan F, Matsumoto J, Toyota N, Tanaka K.

Author information: 
(1)Mitsubishi Chemical Safety Institute Ltd., Ibaraki, Japan.

Liver biopsy based on a partial hepatectomy technique (shearing) was performed in
10 common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). This is a preliminary study to evaluate
the effects of drugs on hepatic microsomal enzymes: cytochrome P-450 and T4
uridine diphosphate glucuronyl transferase (T4-UDPGT), by comparing
post-treatment values with pre-treatment values individually with a limited
number of animals. The effects of the biopsy on clinical findings and liver
pathology were evaluated during the first 5 post-surgical weeks. Although the
plasma aspartate aminotransferase (AST) activities tended to decrease from 1 to 4
weeks post-surgery, no abnormality was noted in clinical sign, body weight, the
hematocrit value or other blood chemical values. At necropsy, adhesion of the
sheared site of the liver to the parietal peritoneum or the small intestine was
evident in 2 of the 4 marmosets. Microscopic examination revealed focal fibrosis 
in the liver, but it was localized around the sheared site. Based on the above
results, it was concluded that liver biopsy must be performed more than one month
before administration of the drug to be tested. The biopsy samples and the whole 
liver samples obtained at autopsy were subjected to analysis of microsomal
protein content, cytochrome P-450 content and T4-UDPGT activity. In comparison
with the values from the whole liver samples, those from the biopsy samples
showed no significant difference. Furthermore, there was a significant
correlation rather than difference between matched values. This suggested that
partial hepatectomy is a useful method for obtaining pretreatment values in liver
biochemistry to evaluate the effects of drug-treatment in individual animals.

DOI: 10.1538/expanim.49.91 
PMID: 10889947  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3299. J Neurosci. 2000 Jul 15;20(14):5552-63.

Visual responses of neurons in the middle temporal area of new world monkeys
after lesions of striate cortex.

Rosa MG(1), Tweedale R, Elston GN.

Author information: 
(1)Vision, Touch, and Hearing Research Centre, The University of Queensland, QLD 
4072, Australia. marcello.rosa@med.monash.edu.au

In primates, lesions of striate cortex (V1) result in scotomas in which only
rudimentary visual abilities remain. These aspects of vision that survive V1
lesions have been attributed to direct thalamic pathways to extrastriate areas,
including the middle temporal area (MT). However, studies in New World monkeys
and humans have questioned this interpretation, suggesting that remnants of V1
are responsible for both the activation of MT and residual vision. We studied the
visual responses of neurons in area MT in New World marmoset monkeys in the weeks
after lesions of V1. The extent of the scotoma in each case was estimated by
mapping the receptive fields of cells located near the lesion border and by
histological reconstruction. Two response types were observed among the cells
located in the part of MT that corresponds, in visuotopic coordinates, to the
lesioned part of V1. Many neurons (62%) had receptive fields that were displaced 
relative to their expected location, so that they represented the visual field
immediately surrounding the scotoma. This may be a consequence of a process
analogous to the reorganization of the V1 map after retinal lesions. However,
another 20% of the cells had receptive fields centered inside the scotoma. Most
of these neurons were strongly direction-selective, similar to normal MT cells.
These results show that MT cells differ in their responses to lesioning of V1 and
that only a subpopulation of MT neurons can be reasonably linked to residual
vision and blindsight.


PMCID: PMC6772324
PMID: 10884339  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

