

3302. J Immunol. 2000 Jul 15;165(2):1093-101.

Myelin/oligodendrocyte glycoprotein-induced autoimmune encephalomyelitis in
common marmosets: the encephalitogenic T cell epitope pMOG24-36 is presented by a
monomorphic MHC class II molecule.

Brok HP(1), Uccelli A, Kerlero De Rosbo N, Bontrop RE, Roccatagliata L, de Groot 
NG, Capello E, Laman JD, Nicolay K, Mancardi GL, Ben-Nun A, Hart BA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Rijswijk, The
Netherlands.

Immunization of common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) with a single dose of human
myelin in CFA, without administration of Bordetella pertussis, induces a form of 
autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) resembling in its clinical and pathological
expression multiple sclerosis in humans. The EAE incidence in our outbred
marmoset colony is 100%. This study was undertaken to assess the genetic and
immunological basis of the high EAE susceptibility. To this end, we determined
the separate contributions of immune reactions to myelin/oligodendrocyte
glycoprotein (MOG) and myelin basic protein to the EAE induction. Essentially all
pathological features of myelin-induced EAE were also found in animals immunized 
with MOG in CFA, whereas in animals immunized with myelin basic protein in CFA
clinical and pathological signs of EAE were lacking. The epitope recognition by
anti-MOG Abs and T cells were assessed. Evidence is provided that the initiation 
of EAE is based on T and B cell activation by the encephalitogenic phMOG14-36
peptide in the context of monomorphic Caja-DRB*W1201 molecules.

DOI: 10.4049/jimmunol.165.2.1093 
PMID: 10878388  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3303. Arch Toxicol. 2000 May;74(3):133-8.

Identification of theta-class glutathione S-transferase in liver cytosol of the
marmoset monkey.

Schulz TG(1), Wiebel FA, Thier R, Neubert D, Davies DS, Edwards RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Medicine, Imperial College School of Medicine, Hammersmith
Hospital, London, UK. tschulz1@gwdg.de

The presence of theta-class glutathione S-transferase (GST) in marmoset monkey
liver cytosol was investigated. An anti-peptide antibody targeted against the
C-terminus of rGSTT1 reacted with a single band in marmoset liver cytosol that
corresponded to a molecular weight of 28 kDa. The intensity of the immunoreactive
band was not affected by treatment of marmoset monkeys with
2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin, phenobarbitone, rifampicin or clofibric
acid. Similarly, activity towards methyl chloride (MC) was unaffected by these
treatments. However, GST activity towards 1,2-epoxy-3-(p-nitrophenoxy)-propane
(EPNP) was increased in marmosets treated with phenobarbitone (2.6-fold) and
rifampicin (2.6-fold), activity towards dichloromethane (DCM) was increased by
50% after treatment of marmosets with clofibric acid, and activity towards
1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) was raised slightly (30-42% increases) after
treatment with phenobarbitone, rifampicin or clofibric acid. Compared with
humans, marmoset liver cytosol GST activity towards DCM was 18-fold higher,
activity towards MC was 7 times higher and activity towards CDNB was 4 times
higher. Further, EPNP activity was clearly detectable in marmoset liver cytosol
samples, but was undetectable in human samples. Immunoreactive marmoset GST was
partially purified by affinity chromatography using hexylglutathione-Sepharose
and Orange A resin. The interaction of immunoreactive marmoset GST was similar to
that found previously for rat and human GSTT1, suggesting that this protein is
also a theta class GST. However, unlike rat GSTT1, the marmoset enzyme was not
the major catalyst of EPNP conjugation. Instead, immunoreactivity was closely
associated with activity towards MC. In conclusion, these results provide
evidence for the presence of theta-class GST in the marmoset monkey orthologous
to rGSTT1 and hGSTT1.

DOI: 10.1007/s002040050665 
PMID: 10876998  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

