

3303. Arch Toxicol. 2000 May;74(3):133-8.

Identification of theta-class glutathione S-transferase in liver cytosol of the
marmoset monkey.

Schulz TG(1), Wiebel FA, Thier R, Neubert D, Davies DS, Edwards RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Medicine, Imperial College School of Medicine, Hammersmith
Hospital, London, UK. tschulz1@gwdg.de

The presence of theta-class glutathione S-transferase (GST) in marmoset monkey
liver cytosol was investigated. An anti-peptide antibody targeted against the
C-terminus of rGSTT1 reacted with a single band in marmoset liver cytosol that
corresponded to a molecular weight of 28 kDa. The intensity of the immunoreactive
band was not affected by treatment of marmoset monkeys with
2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin, phenobarbitone, rifampicin or clofibric
acid. Similarly, activity towards methyl chloride (MC) was unaffected by these
treatments. However, GST activity towards 1,2-epoxy-3-(p-nitrophenoxy)-propane
(EPNP) was increased in marmosets treated with phenobarbitone (2.6-fold) and
rifampicin (2.6-fold), activity towards dichloromethane (DCM) was increased by
50% after treatment of marmosets with clofibric acid, and activity towards
1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) was raised slightly (30-42% increases) after
treatment with phenobarbitone, rifampicin or clofibric acid. Compared with
humans, marmoset liver cytosol GST activity towards DCM was 18-fold higher,
activity towards MC was 7 times higher and activity towards CDNB was 4 times
higher. Further, EPNP activity was clearly detectable in marmoset liver cytosol
samples, but was undetectable in human samples. Immunoreactive marmoset GST was
partially purified by affinity chromatography using hexylglutathione-Sepharose
and Orange A resin. The interaction of immunoreactive marmoset GST was similar to
that found previously for rat and human GSTT1, suggesting that this protein is
also a theta class GST. However, unlike rat GSTT1, the marmoset enzyme was not
the major catalyst of EPNP conjugation. Instead, immunoreactivity was closely
associated with activity towards MC. In conclusion, these results provide
evidence for the presence of theta-class GST in the marmoset monkey orthologous
to rGSTT1 and hGSTT1.

DOI: 10.1007/s002040050665 
PMID: 10876998  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3304. Brain. 2000 Jul;123 ( Pt 7):1442-58.

The influence of excitotoxic basal ganglia lesions on motor performance in the
common marmoset.

Kendall AL(1), David F, Rayment G, Torres EM, Annett LE, Dunnett SB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology and Cambridge Centre for Brain Repair,
University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK. alk1001@cus.cam.ac.uk

Huntington's disease is a genetically inherited neurodegenerative disorder for
which currently there is no effective treatment or cure. In order to gauge the
potential therapeutic benefits of neuroprotective or restorative treatments, it
is necessary to create an animal model that is associated with readily measurable
and long-lasting functional impairments. The undifferentiated neostriatum and
limited behavioural repertoire of rodents have led to the extension of our
investigations into the common marmoset. We have used quinolinic acid to create
unilateral excitotoxic lesions of the caudate nucleus or the putamen in this
small non-human primate. Following rigorous investigation of each monkey on a
battery of behavioural tests, we found that the unilateral putamen lesion was
associated with a contralateral motor impairment that persisted for at least 9
months and withstood repeated testing. However, the unilateral caudate nucleus
lesion did not appear to be associated with any detectable motor deficit. The
stability and the reproducibility of the unilateral putamen lesion in the
marmoset provide a suitable tool for the investigation of potential treatments
for neurodegenerative disorders that attack this region of the brain.

DOI: 10.1093/brain/123.7.1442 
PMID: 10869056  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

