

3306. Physiol Behav. 2000 Apr 1-15;69(1-2):121-33.

Taste quality and intensity: lessons from the Morrison technique.

Ganchrow D(1), Erickson RP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy and Embryology, Sackler Faculty of Medicine, Tel Aviv
University, Israel. anatom12@post.tau.ac.il

The nontoxic and nonshock Morrison operant technique was used to evaluate taste
quality in rat and marmoset: response to a tastant test solution in pursuit of a 
pellet reward was dependent on making a choice between two bars that had been
linked in discrimination training to qualitatively different stimulus pairs (NaCl
versus either HCl, QHCl, or NH(4)Cl). The percentage distribution of bar-press
responses to test stimuli showed: (1) stability of quality across 0.069-0.3 M
NaCl, 0.003-0.1 M HCl, and 0.0001-0.003 M QHCl; (2) for LiCl, a quality change
consistent with human reports of a "sour" to "salty" shift; (3) a suggestion that
the "salty-like" quality of NH(4)Cl and NaCl are not perceptually equivalent; (4)
NaNO(3) shares NaCl-like, QHCl-like, and NH(4)Cl-like components; (5) CaCl(2),
KCl, and MgCl(2) share QHCl-like and NH(4)Cl-like components; and (6) responses
to HCl and QHCl were not hedonically driven in the rat. Comparison of rank order 
correlations of single-unit firing rates to the distribution of bar-press
responses for the same test stimulus concentration revealed that (7) no single
level of the gustatory pathway exclusively accounts for the operant response
distribution pattern to either simple or complex tastants, and (8)
discriminations between tastants, one of which may be qualitatively complex, are 
not necessarily mediated only at levels proximal to the solitary nucleus. Thus,
the Morrison discrimination technique effectively yields statements about
gustatory quality without use of negative reinforcers and largely uninfluenced by
tastant hedonics.

DOI: 10.1016/s0031-9384(00)00196-7 
PMID: 10854924  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3307. Neuroscience. 2000;98(2):243-51.

Synergistic effects of unilateral immunolesions of the cholinergic projections
from the basal forebrain and contralateral ablations of the inferotemporal cortex
and hippocampus in monkeys.

Barefoot HC(1), Baker HF, Ridley RM.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Comparative Cognition Team, Department of Experimental Psychology, Downing
Street, CB2 3EB, Cambridge, UK.

Monkeys, with unilateral immunotoxic lesions of the basal nucleus of Meynert that
remove cholinergic innervation of the ipsilesional neocortex, and ablations of
the contralateral inferotemporal neocortex, were impaired on retention of visual 
discriminations learnt before surgery and on acquisition of new discriminations. 
This demonstrates that the cholinergic projection from the basal nucleus supports
the functions of its cortical target area. Our previous studies have shown that
the impairment on discrimination performance following bilateral lesions of the
basal nucleus is transient and that bilateral lesions of the diagonal band of
Broca, that remove cholinergic innervation of the hippocampus, are without effect
on these tasks. However, the impairment resulting from bilateral lesions of the
basal nucleus plus the diagonal band, or from bilateral inferotemporal cortex
ablations, is severe and persistent. Bilateral inferotemporal ablations deprive
the hippocampus of much of its visual input by producing a discontinuity in
cortico-cortical transmission, whereas basal nucleus lesions may merely prevent
the modification of visually-derived information in the inferotemporal cortex
without depriving the hippocampus of visual input. In the monkeys with crossed
unilateral basal nucleus plus inferotemporal cortex lesions, the addition of a
diagonal band lesion to the basal nucleus lesion produced an impairment on
retention of visual discriminations and sustained the acquisition impairment.
This confirms the previous finding that the basal nucleus and diagonal band act
synergistically in producing a severe and permanent impairment. Further addition 
of an excitotoxic hippocampal lesion to the hemisphere with the inferotemporal
cortex ablation did not add to the learning impairment. This supports the
suggestion that the inferotemporal cortex ablation has deprived the hippocampus
of its visual input.Overall, these experiments demonstrate that the cholinergic
projections from the basal nucleus and diagonal band participate in the learning 
and memory functions of the temporal lobes.

DOI: 10.1016/s0306-4522(00)00131-7 
PMID: 10854755  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

