

3307. Neuroscience. 2000;98(2):243-51.

Synergistic effects of unilateral immunolesions of the cholinergic projections
from the basal forebrain and contralateral ablations of the inferotemporal cortex
and hippocampus in monkeys.

Barefoot HC(1), Baker HF, Ridley RM.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Comparative Cognition Team, Department of Experimental Psychology, Downing
Street, CB2 3EB, Cambridge, UK.

Monkeys, with unilateral immunotoxic lesions of the basal nucleus of Meynert that
remove cholinergic innervation of the ipsilesional neocortex, and ablations of
the contralateral inferotemporal neocortex, were impaired on retention of visual 
discriminations learnt before surgery and on acquisition of new discriminations. 
This demonstrates that the cholinergic projection from the basal nucleus supports
the functions of its cortical target area. Our previous studies have shown that
the impairment on discrimination performance following bilateral lesions of the
basal nucleus is transient and that bilateral lesions of the diagonal band of
Broca, that remove cholinergic innervation of the hippocampus, are without effect
on these tasks. However, the impairment resulting from bilateral lesions of the
basal nucleus plus the diagonal band, or from bilateral inferotemporal cortex
ablations, is severe and persistent. Bilateral inferotemporal ablations deprive
the hippocampus of much of its visual input by producing a discontinuity in
cortico-cortical transmission, whereas basal nucleus lesions may merely prevent
the modification of visually-derived information in the inferotemporal cortex
without depriving the hippocampus of visual input. In the monkeys with crossed
unilateral basal nucleus plus inferotemporal cortex lesions, the addition of a
diagonal band lesion to the basal nucleus lesion produced an impairment on
retention of visual discriminations and sustained the acquisition impairment.
This confirms the previous finding that the basal nucleus and diagonal band act
synergistically in producing a severe and permanent impairment. Further addition 
of an excitotoxic hippocampal lesion to the hemisphere with the inferotemporal
cortex ablation did not add to the learning impairment. This supports the
suggestion that the inferotemporal cortex ablation has deprived the hippocampus
of its visual input.Overall, these experiments demonstrate that the cholinergic
projections from the basal nucleus and diagonal band participate in the learning 
and memory functions of the temporal lobes.

DOI: 10.1016/s0306-4522(00)00131-7 
PMID: 10854755  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3308. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2000 Jun;85(6):2339-44.

Inhibition of early luteal angiogenesis by gonadotropin-releasing hormone
antagonist treatment in the primate.

Dickson SE(1), Fraser HM.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council Human Reproductive Sciences Unit, Centre for
Reproductive Biology, Edinburgh, United Kingdom. s.dickson@ed-rbu.mrc.ac.uk

Angiogenesis during luteal development is essential for normal lutein cell
function, but the control of this process and the relationships between the
steroidogenic and endothelial cells have still to be elucidated. The aim of this 
study was to: 1) quantify endothelial cell proliferation throughout the luteal
phase of the marmoset ovulatory cycle; 2) determine the effect of gonadotropin
withdrawal using GnRH antagonist treatment on the early luteal phase angiogenesis
peak; and 3) describe the resultant morphological changes in the corpus luteum
(CL). Ovaries were collected during the early, mid-, and late luteal phase, and
changes in angiogenic activity were determined by quantification of
bromodeoxyuridine incorporation. Animals were treated with a GnRH antagonist, on 
luteal days 1 and 2, and ovaries were collected on day 3. A proliferation index
was obtained by counting the number of bromodeoxyuridine immunopositive cells in 
luteal sections. Cell proliferation was maximal in the early luteal phase and
fell significantly in the mid- and late CL. GnRH antagonist treatment reduced the
early luteal phase proliferation peak by 90%, suppressed plasma progesterone, and
severely disrupted lutein cell morphology. These results demonstrate that the
intense angiogenesis in the early primate CL is dependent on gonadotropin
stimulation of lutein cells.

DOI: 10.1210/jcem.85.6.6621 
PMID: 10852474  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

