

3312. Biol Reprod. 2000 Jun;62(6):1685-93.

Effect of neonatal gonadotropin-releasing hormone antagonist administration on
sertoli cell number and testicular development in the marmoset: comparison with
the rat.

Sharpe RM(1), Walker M, Millar MR, Atanassova N, Morris K, McKinnell C, Saunders 
PT, Fraser HM.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Reproductive Biology Unit, Edinburgh EH3 9ET, Scotland, United Kingdom.

The primary purpose of this study was to establish whether Sertoli cells
proliferate in the neonatal period in the marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus)
and whether administration of a long-acting GnRH antagonist (GnRHa) during this
phase induced any transient or permanent effects on Sertoli cell number or on any
other aspect of testicular development. Male marmoset co-twins (n = 9) were
treated during Weeks 1-14 with either vehicle or GnRHa. Four sets of co-twins
were examined at Weeks 18-22 (start of infancy) and 5 sets in adulthood (92+ wk),
and Sertoli cell number was determined using either the nucleator or optical
disector methods; other testicular morphometric analyses (e.g., germ cell volume,
Leydig cell volume) used standard point-counting. Data for the marmoset were
compared with that obtained in similarly treated rats. Sertoli cell number in
marmosets treated neonatally with GnRHa was reduced by 35% compared with that of 
controls at Weeks 18-22 but was comparable to control values in adulthood.
However, seminiferous epithelium volume was reduced significantly in adult
marmosets treated neonatally with GnRHa, and there was a tendency for reduced
germ cell volume per Sertoli cell. In the same animals, there was significant
expansion of the interstitium and an increase in Leydig cell volume per testis
when compared with co-twin controls; a similar increase in Leydig cell volume was
evident in adult rats treated neonatally with GnRHa. Comparison of Sertoli cell
numbers in 6 infantile (18-24 wk) and 10 adult marmosets showed that adult
numbers of Sertoli cells were present by the start of infancy but, unlike rats,
marmosets were still able to replicate Sertoli cells beyond this period. However,
marmoset Sertoli cells supported only approximately 20% of the germ cell volume
supported by rat Sertoli cells, indicative of poor efficiency of spermatogenesis,
as shown previously in the human. This finding, together with the demonstration
of a temporal pattern of Sertoli cell replication similar to that in the human,
supports the use of marmosets as a model for human male testicular development
and function.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod62.6.1685 
PMID: 10819772  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3313. Psychoneuroendocrinology. 2000 Jul;25(5):463-77.

Reduced adrenocortical responsiveness to adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) in
socially subordinate female marmoset monkeys.

Saltzman W(1), Prudom SL, Schultz-Darken NJ, Abbott DH.

Author information: 
(1)Wisconsin Regional Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin-Madison,
Madison, WI 53715-1299, USA. saltzman@primate.wisc.edu

Socially subordinate female common marmoset monkeys undergo pronounced, chronic
reductions in basal plasma cortisol levels, which appear to result both from
socially induced suppression of reproductive hormones and from direct effects of 
social subordination. In this study, we tested the hypothesis that this cortisol 
suppression is mediated by reduced adrenocortical responsiveness to
adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH). Dominant, subordinate, and ovariectomized
females were given dexamethasone (5 mg/kg, IM), followed the next morning by
human ACTH(1-39) (10 microg/kg, IV) or sterile saline (0.5 ml/kg, IV); blood
samples were collected at -20 through 150 min from ACTH or saline treatment and
assayed for cortisol. ACTH, but not saline, caused a marked elevation of plasma
cortisol levels. Prior to ACTH treatment, dominant females tended to have higher 
dexamethasone-suppressed cortisol levels than subordinate and ovariectomized
females. After ACTH treatment, dominant females had significantly higher cortisol
concentrations, as well as higher peak and net integrated cortisol responses to
ACTH, than did subordinate and ovariectomized animals; the latter two groups
showed comparable cortisol responses to ACTH. These results suggest that dampened
adrenocortical responsiveness to ACTH contributes to chronic reductions in
cortisol levels in subordinate female marmosets and may be mediated by
suppression of reproductive hormones.

DOI: 10.1016/s0306-4530(00)00003-2 
PMID: 10818281  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

