

3316. Brain Res. 2000 May 12;864(2):163-75.

Distribution of NADPH-diaphorase cells in visual and somatosensory cortex in four
mammalian species.

Franca JG(1), Volchan E, Jain N, Catania KC, Oliveira RL, Hess FF, Jablonka M,
Rocha-Miranda CE, Kaas JH.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Neurobiologia II, Instituto de Biofísica Carlos Chagas Filho,
CCS-Bl. 6, Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.

The distribution of the well-labeled nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate 
diaphorase (NADPHd) Type I neurons was evaluated in the isocortex of four
mammalian species: the Didelphis opossum, the Monodelphis opossum, the rat and
the marmoset. In Didelphis opossum, laminar distribution was examined in
tangential and non-tangential sections. The density increases from superficial to
deep layers of the gray matter. In rats' tangential sections, infragranular and
supragranular layers have higher density than layer IV. Cell density measurements
in the visual and the somatosensory cortices were compared in tangential sections
from flattened hemispheres of the four species. Somatosensory areas were
identified histochemically in rat (barrel fields) and marmoset (S1 and S2/PV). In
the opossums, areas S1 and S2/PV were identified by multiunit recording. Except
in the rat, primary visual cortex (V1) was labeled histochemically by NADPHd
and/or cytochrome oxidase. In the four species, cell density in somatosensory
cortex was significantly higher than in visual cortex. Taken together these
results demonstrate that NADPHd Type I neurons are not homogeneously distributed 
in the isocortex of these mammals. In conclusion, the tangential distribution of 
Type I neurons in the sensory areas examined, but not its laminar distribution,
was similar in the four species. Given that rats, marmosets and opossums are
distantly related species, and that the latter are considered to have more
'generalized' brains, it is conceivable that this pattern of tangential
distribution of Type I neurons is a general feature of mammalian isocortex.

DOI: 10.1016/s0006-8993(00)02058-8 
PMID: 10802023  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3317. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2000 May;41(6):1249-58.

Choroidal thickness changes during altered eye growth and refractive state in a
primate.

Troilo D(1), Nickla DL, Wildsoet CF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Science and Disease, The New England College of
Optometry, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA. troilod@ne-optometry.edu

PURPOSE: In the chick, compensation for experimentally induced defocus involves
changes in the thickness of the choroid. The choroid thickens in response to
imposed myopic defocus and thins in response to imposed hyperopic defocus. This
study was undertaken to determine whether similar choroidal changes occur in the 
primate eye with induced refractive errors.
METHODS: Thirty-three common marmosets were used. Eyes in 26 monkeys served as
untreated control eyes, and eyes in 7 received 3 weeks of monocular lid suture to
induce changes in eye growth and refractive state. Refractive errors were
measured using refractometry and retinoscopy, and axial ocular dimensions,
including choroidal thickness, were measured using high-frequency A-scan
ultrasonography. Eyes were measured before the lids were sutured and at frequent 
intervals after lid opening.
RESULTS: In the marmoset, choroidal thickness ranges from 88 to 150 microm and
increases significantly during the first year of life. Monocular lid suture
initially results in short, hyperopic eyes that then become elongated and myopic.
In these animals the choroids of both the experimental and the fellow control
eyes also increase in thickness with age but additionally show interocular
differences that vary significantly with the relative changes in vitreous chamber
depth and refraction. In eyes that are shorter and more hyperopic than control
eyes the choroids are thicker, and in eyes that are longer and more myopic than
control eyes the choroids are thinner.
CONCLUSIONS: In marmosets, the thickness of the choroid increases during
postnatal eye growth. Superimposed on this developmental increase in choroidal
thickness there are changes in thickness that are correlated with the induced
changes in eye size. These changes are small (<50 microm) in comparison with
those observed in the chick, contributing to less than a diopter change in
refractive error.


PMID: 10798638  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

