

3317. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2000 May;41(6):1249-58.

Choroidal thickness changes during altered eye growth and refractive state in a
primate.

Troilo D(1), Nickla DL, Wildsoet CF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Science and Disease, The New England College of
Optometry, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA. troilod@ne-optometry.edu

PURPOSE: In the chick, compensation for experimentally induced defocus involves
changes in the thickness of the choroid. The choroid thickens in response to
imposed myopic defocus and thins in response to imposed hyperopic defocus. This
study was undertaken to determine whether similar choroidal changes occur in the 
primate eye with induced refractive errors.
METHODS: Thirty-three common marmosets were used. Eyes in 26 monkeys served as
untreated control eyes, and eyes in 7 received 3 weeks of monocular lid suture to
induce changes in eye growth and refractive state. Refractive errors were
measured using refractometry and retinoscopy, and axial ocular dimensions,
including choroidal thickness, were measured using high-frequency A-scan
ultrasonography. Eyes were measured before the lids were sutured and at frequent 
intervals after lid opening.
RESULTS: In the marmoset, choroidal thickness ranges from 88 to 150 microm and
increases significantly during the first year of life. Monocular lid suture
initially results in short, hyperopic eyes that then become elongated and myopic.
In these animals the choroids of both the experimental and the fellow control
eyes also increase in thickness with age but additionally show interocular
differences that vary significantly with the relative changes in vitreous chamber
depth and refraction. In eyes that are shorter and more hyperopic than control
eyes the choroids are thicker, and in eyes that are longer and more myopic than
control eyes the choroids are thinner.
CONCLUSIONS: In marmosets, the thickness of the choroid increases during
postnatal eye growth. Superimposed on this developmental increase in choroidal
thickness there are changes in thickness that are correlated with the induced
changes in eye size. These changes are small (<50 microm) in comparison with
those observed in the chick, contributing to less than a diopter change in
refractive error.


PMID: 10798638  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3318. J Biochem. 2000 May;127(5):761-70.

New world monkey pepsinogens A and C, and prochymosins. Purification,
characterization of enzymatic properties, cDNA cloning, and molecular evolution.

Kageyama T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Human Evolution Modeling Research, Primate Research Institute,
Kyoto University, Inuyama 484-8506, Japan. kageyama@pri.kyoto-u.ac.jp

Pepsinogens A and C, and prochymosin were purified from four species of adult New
World monkeys, namely, common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), cotton-top tamarin
(Saguinus oedipus), squirrel monkey (Saimiri sciureus), and capuchin monkey
(Cebus apella). The occurrence of prochymosin was quite unique since this zymogen
is known to be neonate-specific and, in primates, it has been thought that the
prochymosin gene is not functional. No multiple form has been detected for any
type of pepsinogen except that two pepsinogen-A isozymogens were identified in
capuchin monkey. Pepsins A and C, and chymosin hydrolyzed hemoglobin optimally at
pH 2-2.5 with maximal activities of about 20, 30, and 15 units/mg protein.
Pepsins A were inhibited in the presence of an equimolar amount of pepstatin, and
chymosins and pepsins C needed 5- and 100-fold molar excesses of pepstatin for
complete inhibition, respectively. Hydrolysis of insulin B chain occurred first
at the Leu15-Tyr16 bond in the case of pepsins A and chymosins, and at either the
Leu15-Tyr16 or Tyr16-Leu17 bond in the case of pepsins C. The presence of
different types of pepsins might be advantageous to New World monkeys for the
efficient digestion of a variety of foods. Molecular cloning of cDNAs for three
types of pepsinogens from common marmoset was achieved. A phylogenetic tree of
pepsinogens based on the nucleotide sequence showed that common marmoset diverged
from the ancestral primate about 40 million years ago.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.jbchem.a022668 
PMID: 10788784  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

