

3318. J Biochem. 2000 May;127(5):761-70.

New world monkey pepsinogens A and C, and prochymosins. Purification,
characterization of enzymatic properties, cDNA cloning, and molecular evolution.

Kageyama T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Human Evolution Modeling Research, Primate Research Institute,
Kyoto University, Inuyama 484-8506, Japan. kageyama@pri.kyoto-u.ac.jp

Pepsinogens A and C, and prochymosin were purified from four species of adult New
World monkeys, namely, common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), cotton-top tamarin
(Saguinus oedipus), squirrel monkey (Saimiri sciureus), and capuchin monkey
(Cebus apella). The occurrence of prochymosin was quite unique since this zymogen
is known to be neonate-specific and, in primates, it has been thought that the
prochymosin gene is not functional. No multiple form has been detected for any
type of pepsinogen except that two pepsinogen-A isozymogens were identified in
capuchin monkey. Pepsins A and C, and chymosin hydrolyzed hemoglobin optimally at
pH 2-2.5 with maximal activities of about 20, 30, and 15 units/mg protein.
Pepsins A were inhibited in the presence of an equimolar amount of pepstatin, and
chymosins and pepsins C needed 5- and 100-fold molar excesses of pepstatin for
complete inhibition, respectively. Hydrolysis of insulin B chain occurred first
at the Leu15-Tyr16 bond in the case of pepsins A and chymosins, and at either the
Leu15-Tyr16 or Tyr16-Leu17 bond in the case of pepsins C. The presence of
different types of pepsins might be advantageous to New World monkeys for the
efficient digestion of a variety of foods. Molecular cloning of cDNAs for three
types of pepsinogens from common marmoset was achieved. A phylogenetic tree of
pepsinogens based on the nucleotide sequence showed that common marmoset diverged
from the ancestral primate about 40 million years ago.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.jbchem.a022668 
PMID: 10788784  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3319. J Med Chem. 2000 Apr 20;43(8):1467-75.

Improving the oral bioavailability of the iron chelator HBED by breaking the
symmetry of the intramolecular H-bond network.

Faller B(1), Spanka C, Sergejew T, Tschinke V.

Author information: 
(1)Research Department, Novartis Pharma AG, WKL-122.P.33, CH-4002 Basel,
Switzerland. bernard.faller@pharma.novartis.com

Physicochemical analysis and Monte Carlo simulations were used to identify
structural features which prevent oral absorption of HBED, a potent iron
chelator. In water the dominant conformations of HBED involve the hydrophobic
collapse of the two aromatic rings. These conformations are favored in polar
media because they expose the polar phenolic hydroxy groups to the solvent and
partially shield the nonpolar aromatic rings. In a less polar solvent such as
chloroform, a symmetrical H-bond network between the carboxylates and the amines 
dominates the conformational space. This leads to the exposure of the phenolic
hydroxy groups to the solvent, which is unfavorable for solvation. The low
solubility of HBED in nonpolar solvents was confirmed experimentally by
determination of the partition coefficients in octanol, chloroform, and
cyclohexane and may explain the poor membrane permeability of this compound. The 
high conformational stability which disfavors partitioning into phospholipids is 
mainly due to the symmetrical H-bond network. Potentiometric titrations of a
monoester of HBED in MeOH/water indicate that the protonation sequence was
changed compared to that of the parent compound, suggesting that the symmetrical 
H-bond network was disrupted. Conformational analysis in chloroform confirmed
that, in contrast to HBED, no symmetric interaction between the carboxylate and
the nitrogen amines is possible in the half-ester and a variety of conformations 
which allow partial shielding of the polar phenolic OH groups are energetically
possible. This theoretical model predicting a better solubility of the
half-esters in nonpolar solvents was supported by the large increase in the
partition coefficients in octanol, chloroform, and cyclohexane measured
experimentally. The high absorbability predicted by physicochemical and computer 
simulation methods was corroborated by in vivo experiments in marmoset monkeys
where the monoethyl ester derivative of HBED was well-absorbed orally while the
parent compound was nearly ineffective in the same model.

DOI: 10.1021/jm990261n 
PMID: 10780902  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

