

3327. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2000 Apr;85(4):1711-8.

Localization and signaling of the prolactin receptor in the uterus of the common 
marmoset monkey.

Dalrymple A(1), Jabbour HN.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council Reproductive Biology Unit, Center for Reproductive
Biology, Edinburgh, United Kingdom.

This study investigated the expression and signaling pathway of PRL and its
receptor in the non-pregnant uterus of the common marmoset monkey.
Immunohistochemistry localized PRL expression to the stromal compartment of the
endometrium. Expression was minimal during the proliferative phase and was
up-regulated during the mid to late secretory phase of the ovulatory cycle. In
situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry localized expression of the PRL
receptor to the glandular epithelium of the endometrium. Similar to that of PRL, 
PRL receptor expression was minimal during the proliferative phase and was
dramatically up-regulated during the secretory phase. The temporal pattern of PRL
receptor gene expression in the marmoset uterus across the cycle was further
confirmed by ribonuclease protection assay. The roles of Janus kinase-2 (JAK2)
and signal transducer and activator of transcription-1 (STAT1) in the
intracellular signaling pathway of PRL were also assessed in the mid to late
secretory phase. JAK2/STAT1 proteins were localized in the glandular epithelial
compartment, and both proteins were temporally phosphorylated in response to PRL.
Finally, the pattern of expression of the interferon regulatory factor-1 (IRF-1) 
gene and the effect of PRL on transcription of IRF-1 were investigated during the
mid to late secretory phase. IRF-1 expression in the marmoset uterus was encoded 
by a protein of 48 kDa and was localized to the glandular epithelial compartment,
as was observed for the PRL receptor and JAK2/STAT1 proteins. Moreover,
incubation of mid to late secretory uterine tissue with PRL for 1 and 3 h
resulted in 0.4 +/- 0.2- and 2.4 +/-0.5-fold (P < 0.05) inductions of the IRF-1
gene, respectively. These studies confirm the expression of both PRL and its
receptor in the uterus of the marmoset monkey. Expression of both genes is
up-regulated during the mid to late secretory phase of the ovulatory cycle. PRL
function in the marmoset uterus is linked to the JAK/STAT signaling pathway,
leading to the regulation of expression of PRL-responsive genes such as IRF-1.
The site of expression of PRL, PRL receptors, and IRF-1 in the marmoset uterus
suggest that PRL may influence glandular epithelial function and direct gene
transcription in these cells in a paracrine fashion.

DOI: 10.1210/jcem.85.4.6504 
PMID: 10770219  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3328. Gen Comp Endocrinol. 2000 Mar;117(3):427-38.

Comparative aspects of the metabolism and excretion of cortisol in three
individual nonhuman primates.

Bahr NI(1), Palme R, Möhle U, Hodges JK, Heistermann M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Reproductive Biology, Germany Primate Center, Göttingen,
Germany.

A radiometabolism study is described to provide the first comparative data on the
time course, route, and characteristics of excreted [3H]cortisol metabolites in
three nonhuman primates: the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), the
long-tailed macaque (Macacafascicularis), and the chimpanzee (Pan troglodytes). A
low dose (40-100 microCi) of 3H-labeled cortisol was administered intravenously
to one adult male of each species and the excreta collected over a 5-day period
postinjection. The major proportion of radioactivity was excreted in the urine
(>80%). Peak radioactivity in urine was recovered within 5.5 h following
injection in all three species, while in the feces peak levels of radioactivity
were recovered within 26 h postinjection. In all three species, urinary
metabolites were primarily excreted as conjugates (61-87%), whereas the
percentage of conjugated metabolites in feces was 50% or less. The number and
relative abundance of urinary and fecal [3H]cortisol metabolites were determined 
by reverse-phase high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) and
immunoreactivity of the radioactivity peaks was assessed by screening HPLC
fractions with established cortisol, corticosterone, and 11-oxoetiocholanolone
enzyme immunoassays (EIA), the latter being a group-specific assay for measuring 
11,17-dioxoandrostanes. HPLC separation of urinary and fecal extracts revealed
multiple peaks of radioactivity, several of which were common to all three
species. The relative proportion of these peaks, however, differed considerably
among species and between urine and feces. HPLC indicated that native cortisol
was a major urinary excretory product in the marmoset, while comparatively small 
amounts were present in the urine of the macaque and chimpanzee. In contrast, in 
feces, cortisol was only detected in low amounts in the marmoset and was
virtually absent in the macaque and chimpanzee. In all three species, one of the 
major radioactivity peaks showed a retention time comparable to
11-oxoetiocholanolone and high immunoreactivity in the 11-oxoetiocholanolone EIA.
The measurement of urinary- and/or fecal-immunoreactive 11,17-dioxoandrostanes is
therefore implicated for noninvasive assessment of adrenal function in Old World 
monkeys, New World monkeys, and great apes.

DOI: 10.1006/gcen.1999.7431 
PMID: 10764553  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

