

3333. Cytobios. 2000;101(398):161-72.

Characterization of constitutive heterochromatin of Callithrix geoffroyi
(Callitrichidae, Primates) by restriction enzymes and fluorochrome bands.

Pieczarka JC(1), Nagamachi CY, Pissinatti A, Barros RM, Mattevi MS.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Genética, CCB, Universidade Federal do Pará, Belém, Brazil.

The neotropical primate genus Callithrix comprises two groups of species, jacchus
and argentata, which inhabit distinct geographical regions and manifest different
fur coloration and constitutive heterochromatin (CH) markers in their karyotypes.
In this investigation the CH of a representative of the jacchus group, Callithrix
geoffroyi, was analysed using fluorochromes and restriction enzymes in situ. To
clarify the source of the constitutive heterochromatin of both groups, the data
obtained in the jacchus group were compared with those published in the argentata
group obtained by the same techniques. The C-bands of C. geoffroyi (four
specimens, 2n = 46) were centromeric in all chromosomes, and distally located in 
pairs 6 and 22. The Alu I, Hae III, Hin fI, Rsa I, Dde I, Mbo I, and Msp I
restriction endonucleases and CMA3 and DAPI fluorochromes produced different
bands, which allowed the characterization of four distinct types of constitutive 
heterochromatin in the C. geoffroyi genome. Several of these types of
heterochromatin were present in the ancestor of the two groups of species,
jacchus and argentata, while others originated after their cladogenesis.


PMID: 10755215  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3334. Brain Res. 2000 Apr 7;861(1):45-58.

Motor neurons are rich in non-phosphorylated neurofilaments: cross-species
comparison and alterations in ALS.

Tsang YM(1), Chiong F, Kuznetsov D, Kasarskis E, Geula C.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Neurodegenerative and Aging Research, Department of Medicine,
Harvard Medical School and Section of Gerontology, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical 
Center, Boston, MA 02215, USA.

The localization and distribution of non-phosphorylated neurofilaments (NP-NF) in
the upper and lower motor neurons was investigated in the rat, the common
marmoset, the rhesus monkey and man using the SMI-32 antibody. Within the spinal 
cord of all species studied, the most intense NP-NF immunoreactivity was observed
within the ventral horn alpha-motor neurons. Concurrent staining for the
cholinergic marker choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) demonstrated that virtually
all of the ChAT-positive alpha-motor neurons contain NP-NF immunoreactivity.
Although NP-NF staining was also observed in other neurons within the ventral and
intermediate horns, these neurons were loosely scattered and contained a
considerably lower staining intensity. The only other prominent NP-NF staining in
the spinal cord occurred within the neurons of the dorsal nucleus of Clark and
the intermediolateral cell column. Phosphorylated neurofilament (P-NF)
immunoreactivity was found primarily in neuronal processes. Occasionally, a
solitary motor neuron contained weak P-NF immunoreactivity. Within the brainstem,
neurons in all cranial nerve motor nuclei contained intense NP-NF
immunoreactivity. The distribution and apparent density of NP-NF immunoreactive
neurons in these nuclei was virtually identical to that observed for neurons
immunoreactive for ChAT. NP-NF immunoreactive neurons of relatively lower
intensity were found in many other regions of the brainstem. All of the giant
Betz cells of layer (L) V in the motor cortex contained dark NP-NF
immunoreactivity. Within the spinal cord of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS)
patients, both Nissl and NP-NF staining demonstrated the dramatic loss of
alpha-motor neurons characteristic of this disorder. Some of the remaining motor 
neurons contained intense P-NF immunoreactivity. These observations suggest that 
NP-NF immunoreactivity is a good marker for motor neurons in health and disease
and may be a useful tool for studies of motor neuron degeneration (MND).

DOI: 10.1016/s0006-8993(00)01954-5 
PMID: 10751564  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

