

3334. Brain Res. 2000 Apr 7;861(1):45-58.

Motor neurons are rich in non-phosphorylated neurofilaments: cross-species
comparison and alterations in ALS.

Tsang YM(1), Chiong F, Kuznetsov D, Kasarskis E, Geula C.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Neurodegenerative and Aging Research, Department of Medicine,
Harvard Medical School and Section of Gerontology, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical 
Center, Boston, MA 02215, USA.

The localization and distribution of non-phosphorylated neurofilaments (NP-NF) in
the upper and lower motor neurons was investigated in the rat, the common
marmoset, the rhesus monkey and man using the SMI-32 antibody. Within the spinal 
cord of all species studied, the most intense NP-NF immunoreactivity was observed
within the ventral horn alpha-motor neurons. Concurrent staining for the
cholinergic marker choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) demonstrated that virtually
all of the ChAT-positive alpha-motor neurons contain NP-NF immunoreactivity.
Although NP-NF staining was also observed in other neurons within the ventral and
intermediate horns, these neurons were loosely scattered and contained a
considerably lower staining intensity. The only other prominent NP-NF staining in
the spinal cord occurred within the neurons of the dorsal nucleus of Clark and
the intermediolateral cell column. Phosphorylated neurofilament (P-NF)
immunoreactivity was found primarily in neuronal processes. Occasionally, a
solitary motor neuron contained weak P-NF immunoreactivity. Within the brainstem,
neurons in all cranial nerve motor nuclei contained intense NP-NF
immunoreactivity. The distribution and apparent density of NP-NF immunoreactive
neurons in these nuclei was virtually identical to that observed for neurons
immunoreactive for ChAT. NP-NF immunoreactive neurons of relatively lower
intensity were found in many other regions of the brainstem. All of the giant
Betz cells of layer (L) V in the motor cortex contained dark NP-NF
immunoreactivity. Within the spinal cord of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS)
patients, both Nissl and NP-NF staining demonstrated the dramatic loss of
alpha-motor neurons characteristic of this disorder. Some of the remaining motor 
neurons contained intense P-NF immunoreactivity. These observations suggest that 
NP-NF immunoreactivity is a good marker for motor neurons in health and disease
and may be a useful tool for studies of motor neuron degeneration (MND).

DOI: 10.1016/s0006-8993(00)01954-5 
PMID: 10751564  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3335. Toxicol Sci. 2000 Mar;54(1):30-41.

Effects of dietary oltipraz and ethoxyquin on aflatoxin B1 biotransformation in
non-human primates.

Bammler TK(1), Slone DH, Eaton DL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Environmental Health, University of Washington, Seattle 98195,
USA.

Following aflatoxin B1 (AFB) exposure, rats readily develop liver tumors.
However, treatment of rats with a variety of compounds, including the synthetic
dithiolthione oltipraz and the antioxidant ethoxyquin, protects these rodents
from AFB-induced hepatocarcinogenesis. Several epidemiological studies strongly
suggest that AFB is also a causative agent of liver cancer in humans. However,
relatively little is known about the efficacy of cancer chemoprevention in human 
and non-human primates. To this end, we examined the effects of chemopreventive
agents on AFB metabolism in non-human primates. Hepatic aflatoxin B1 metabolism
profiles of macaque (Macaca nemestrina) and marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) monkeys
were determined and compared to humans. Quantitatively, the oxidative metabolism 
of this mycotoxin was similar in the three primate species. In contrast to
macaques, both humans and marmosets lacked AFB-glutathione conjugating activity. 
It was concluded that marmosets resembled human AFB metabolism more closely than 
the macaques, and therefore, marmoset monkeys were chosen for this study. Eleven 
adult male marmosets were randomly assigned to three groups. Animals received the
synthetic dithiolthione oltipraz, the antioxidant ethoxyquin, or vehicle only. In
addition, two single doses of AFB were also administered orally before and after 
animals were treated with aforementioned compounds. Both oltipraz and ethoxyquin 
induced aflatoxin B1-glutathione conjugating activity in the livers of some but
not all marmosets. In addition, 10 microM oltipraz inhibited cytochrome
P450-mediated activation of AFB to the ultimate carcinogenic metabolite,
aflatoxin B1-8,9-epoxide, in vitro, up to 51%. Furthermore, animals treated in
vivo with oltipraz, but not ethoxyquin, exhibited a significant reduction (53%
average) in AFB-DNA adduct formation relative to the control animals (p < 0.05). 
Together, our data suggest that chemoprevention is also effective in primates;
however, most likely to a lesser degree than in rodents.

DOI: 10.1093/toxsci/54.1.30 
PMID: 10746929  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

