

3335. Toxicol Sci. 2000 Mar;54(1):30-41.

Effects of dietary oltipraz and ethoxyquin on aflatoxin B1 biotransformation in
non-human primates.

Bammler TK(1), Slone DH, Eaton DL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Environmental Health, University of Washington, Seattle 98195,
USA.

Following aflatoxin B1 (AFB) exposure, rats readily develop liver tumors.
However, treatment of rats with a variety of compounds, including the synthetic
dithiolthione oltipraz and the antioxidant ethoxyquin, protects these rodents
from AFB-induced hepatocarcinogenesis. Several epidemiological studies strongly
suggest that AFB is also a causative agent of liver cancer in humans. However,
relatively little is known about the efficacy of cancer chemoprevention in human 
and non-human primates. To this end, we examined the effects of chemopreventive
agents on AFB metabolism in non-human primates. Hepatic aflatoxin B1 metabolism
profiles of macaque (Macaca nemestrina) and marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) monkeys
were determined and compared to humans. Quantitatively, the oxidative metabolism 
of this mycotoxin was similar in the three primate species. In contrast to
macaques, both humans and marmosets lacked AFB-glutathione conjugating activity. 
It was concluded that marmosets resembled human AFB metabolism more closely than 
the macaques, and therefore, marmoset monkeys were chosen for this study. Eleven 
adult male marmosets were randomly assigned to three groups. Animals received the
synthetic dithiolthione oltipraz, the antioxidant ethoxyquin, or vehicle only. In
addition, two single doses of AFB were also administered orally before and after 
animals were treated with aforementioned compounds. Both oltipraz and ethoxyquin 
induced aflatoxin B1-glutathione conjugating activity in the livers of some but
not all marmosets. In addition, 10 microM oltipraz inhibited cytochrome
P450-mediated activation of AFB to the ultimate carcinogenic metabolite,
aflatoxin B1-8,9-epoxide, in vitro, up to 51%. Furthermore, animals treated in
vivo with oltipraz, but not ethoxyquin, exhibited a significant reduction (53%
average) in AFB-DNA adduct formation relative to the control animals (p < 0.05). 
Together, our data suggest that chemoprevention is also effective in primates;
however, most likely to a lesser degree than in rodents.

DOI: 10.1093/toxsci/54.1.30 
PMID: 10746929  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3336. J Biol Chem. 2000 Apr 7;275(14):10648-54.

Characterization of a human angiotensinogen cleaved in its reactive center loop
by a proteolytic activity from Chinese hamster ovary cells.

Célérier J(1), Schmid G, Le Caer JP, Gimenez-Roqueplo AP, Bur D, Friedlein A,
Langen H, Corvol P, Jeunemaitre X.

Author information: 
(1)INSERM U36-Pathologie Vasculaire et Endocrinologie Rénale, Collège de
France-Chaire de Médecine Expérimentale et d'Endocrinologie Rénale 3, rue d'Ulm
75005 Paris, France. jerome.celerier@college-de-france.fr

Angiotensinogen, the renin (E.C. 3.4.23.15) substrate, belongs to the serpins
superfamily and has been classified as a noninhibitory serpin. Using mass
spectroscopy, angiotensinogen purified from Chinese hamster ovary cell
supernatant shows a broad spectrum. The absence of protease inhibitors throughout
the purification leads to an angiotensinogen cleaved within the reactive center
loop. This cleavage does not affect the Ang I generation because kinetic
parameters are similar to the values of the full-length angiotensinogen. Although
cleavage is complete, the cleaved angiotensinogen migrates after deglycosylation 
on SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis as a doublet differing by 4 kDa. To
test whether the circulating angiotensinogen is cleaved in the reactive center
loop, it was purified from a pool of human plasma and was shown to be uncleaved. 
Its migration was obviously slower than of cleaved angiotensinogen but also
consisted of two bands pointing to a so far unexplained residual heterogeneity.
We then compared the heat-induced polymerization of full-length- and reactive
center loop-cleaved angiotensinogens. Both monomers were able to aggregate,
revealing a particular behavior of angiotensinogen distinct from that of reactive
center loop-cleaved serpins. Lacking the three-dimensional structure of
angiotensinogen, we propose and discuss a structural model of the serpin fold
within the renin substrate.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.275.14.10648 
PMID: 10744761  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

