

3336. J Biol Chem. 2000 Apr 7;275(14):10648-54.

Characterization of a human angiotensinogen cleaved in its reactive center loop
by a proteolytic activity from Chinese hamster ovary cells.

Célérier J(1), Schmid G, Le Caer JP, Gimenez-Roqueplo AP, Bur D, Friedlein A,
Langen H, Corvol P, Jeunemaitre X.

Author information: 
(1)INSERM U36-Pathologie Vasculaire et Endocrinologie Rénale, Collège de
France-Chaire de Médecine Expérimentale et d'Endocrinologie Rénale 3, rue d'Ulm
75005 Paris, France. jerome.celerier@college-de-france.fr

Angiotensinogen, the renin (E.C. 3.4.23.15) substrate, belongs to the serpins
superfamily and has been classified as a noninhibitory serpin. Using mass
spectroscopy, angiotensinogen purified from Chinese hamster ovary cell
supernatant shows a broad spectrum. The absence of protease inhibitors throughout
the purification leads to an angiotensinogen cleaved within the reactive center
loop. This cleavage does not affect the Ang I generation because kinetic
parameters are similar to the values of the full-length angiotensinogen. Although
cleavage is complete, the cleaved angiotensinogen migrates after deglycosylation 
on SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis as a doublet differing by 4 kDa. To
test whether the circulating angiotensinogen is cleaved in the reactive center
loop, it was purified from a pool of human plasma and was shown to be uncleaved. 
Its migration was obviously slower than of cleaved angiotensinogen but also
consisted of two bands pointing to a so far unexplained residual heterogeneity.
We then compared the heat-induced polymerization of full-length- and reactive
center loop-cleaved angiotensinogens. Both monomers were able to aggregate,
revealing a particular behavior of angiotensinogen distinct from that of reactive
center loop-cleaved serpins. Lacking the three-dimensional structure of
angiotensinogen, we propose and discuss a structural model of the serpin fold
within the renin substrate.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.275.14.10648 
PMID: 10744761  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3337. Int Immunol. 2000 Apr;12(4):555-62.

A novel murine anti-human Fas mAb which mitigates lymphadenopathy without
hepatotoxicity.

Ichikawa K(1), Yoshida-Kato H, Ohtsuki M, Ohsumi J, Yamaguchi J, Takahashi S,
Tani Y, Watanabe M, Shiraishi A, Nishioka K, Yonehara S, Serizawa N.

Author information: 
(1)Biomedical Research Laboratories, Sankyo Co., Ltd, Tokyo 140-8710, Japan.

Defects in Fas-mediated apoptosis are implicated in autoimmune diseases including
rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Although induction of Fas-mediated apoptosis could
have therapeutic effects on these diseases, it might cause deleterious effects in
liver as Fas ligand or an agonistic anti-murine Fas antibody Jo2 causes severe
hepatic injury in mice. We report here on the interesting characteristics of the 
newly obtained anti-Fas mAb, HFE7A, which cross-reacts with the Fas molecules of 
various species ranging from human to mouse and mitigates autoimmune symptoms
without hepatotoxicity in mice. The administration of HFE7A to mice induced
apoptosis in the thymocytes, although administration of HFE7A to mice or to
marmosets did not induce any sign of hepatitis. The effect of HFE7A on liver is
different from that of anti-murine Fas antibody Jo2, which causes acute and
lethal hepatic injury to mice. Administration of HFE7A reduced lymphadenopathy
and abnormal T cells in MRL-gld/gld mice. HFE7A induced apoptosis in synovial
cells prepared from RA patients. Surprisingly, HFE7A protected mice from
fulminant hepatitis induced by Jo2. Therefore, HFE7A is a potential therapeutic
antibody not only for autoimmune diseases including RA but also for fulminant
hepatitis.

DOI: 10.1093/intimm/12.4.555 
PMID: 10744657  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

