

3340. Proc Biol Sci. 2000 Mar 7;267(1442):439-44.

Demonstration of a foraging advantage for trichromatic marmosets (Callithrix
geoffroyi) dependent on food colour.

Caine NG(1), Mundy NI.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, California State University, San Marcos, CA 92096,
USA.

It has been suggested that the major advantage of trichromatic over dichromatic
colour vision in primates is enhanced detection of red/yellow food items such as 
fruit against the dappled foliage of the forest. This hypothesis was tested by
comparing the foraging ability of dichromatic and trichromatic Geoffroy's
marmosets (Callithrix geoffroyi) for orange- and green-coloured cereal balls
(Kix) in a naturalized captive setting. Trichromatic marmosets found a
significantly greater number of orange, but not green, Kix than dichromatic
marmosets when the food items were scattered on the floor of the cage (at a
potential detection distance of up to 6 m from the animals). Under these
conditions, trichromats but not dichromats found significantly more orange than
green Kix, an effect that was also evident when separately examining the data
from the end of the trials, when the least conspicuous Kix were left. In
contrast, no significant differences among trichromats and dichromats were seen
when the Kix were placed in trays among green wood shavings (detection distance <
0.5 m). These results support an advantage for trichromats in detecting
orange-coloured food items against foliage, and also suggest that this advantage 
may be less important at shorter distances. If such a foraging advantage for
trichromats is present in the wild it might be sufficient to maintain the colour 
vision polymorphism seen in the majority of New World monkeys.

DOI: 10.1098/rspb.2000.1019 
PMCID: PMC1690559
PMID: 10737399  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3341. Cereb Cortex. 2000 Mar;10(3):252-62.

Inhibitory control and affective processing in the prefrontal cortex:
neuropsychological studies in the common marmoset.

Roberts AC(1), Wallis JD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, University of Cambridge, Downing Site, Cambridge CB2
3DY, UK. acr4@cus.cam.ac.uk

The orbitofrontal cortex has been ascribed a role in the inhibitory control, as
well as in the emotional control, of behaviour. While damage to the orbitofrontal
cortex in humans and non-human primates can cause inflexibility, impulsiveness
and emotional disturbance, the relationship between these effects are unclear.
Excitotoxic lesion studies in marmosets comparing the effects of cell loss within
specific regions of the prefrontal cortex on performance of a range of
behavioural tests reveal that mechanisms of response inhibition are not unique to
the orbitofrontal cortex. Instead they are present in distinct cognitive domains 
for lowerorder as well as higher-order processing throughout the prefrontal
cortex. Thus, the lateral prefrontal cortex is involved in the selection and
control of action based upon higher-order rules while the orbitofrontal and
medial prefrontal cortex may be involved in different but complementary forms of 
lower-order rule learning, their roles dissociable, as a result of their
differential contribution to different types of associative learning.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/10.3.252 
PMID: 10731220  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

