

3341. Cereb Cortex. 2000 Mar;10(3):252-62.

Inhibitory control and affective processing in the prefrontal cortex:
neuropsychological studies in the common marmoset.

Roberts AC(1), Wallis JD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, University of Cambridge, Downing Site, Cambridge CB2
3DY, UK. acr4@cus.cam.ac.uk

The orbitofrontal cortex has been ascribed a role in the inhibitory control, as
well as in the emotional control, of behaviour. While damage to the orbitofrontal
cortex in humans and non-human primates can cause inflexibility, impulsiveness
and emotional disturbance, the relationship between these effects are unclear.
Excitotoxic lesion studies in marmosets comparing the effects of cell loss within
specific regions of the prefrontal cortex on performance of a range of
behavioural tests reveal that mechanisms of response inhibition are not unique to
the orbitofrontal cortex. Instead they are present in distinct cognitive domains 
for lowerorder as well as higher-order processing throughout the prefrontal
cortex. Thus, the lateral prefrontal cortex is involved in the selection and
control of action based upon higher-order rules while the orbitofrontal and
medial prefrontal cortex may be involved in different but complementary forms of 
lower-order rule learning, their roles dissociable, as a result of their
differential contribution to different types of associative learning.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/10.3.252 
PMID: 10731220  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3342. Mol Hum Reprod. 2000 Apr;6(4):337-43.

Leukaemia inhibitory factor in the endometrium of the common marmoset Callithrix 
jacchus: localization, expression and hormonal regulation.

Kholkute SD(1), Katkam RR, Nandedkar TD, Puri CP.

Author information: 
(1)Primate Biology Division, Institute for Research in Reproduction (ICMR),
Jehangir Merwanji Street, Parel, Mumbai 400 012, India.

In the present study, changes in the immunohistochemical localization of
leukaemia inhibitory factor (LIF) in the endometrium during various phases of
ovarian cyclicity of the common marmoset have been reported. LIF was absent
during the early and late follicular phases. LIF was observed mainly in the
cytoplasm of the endometrial glands during the early luteal phase, reached
maximum intensity during the mid-luteal phase and declined again during late
luteal phase. In-situ hybridization also showed a similar cyclic pattern in the
expression of LIF. Stromal cells only showed signals for LIF during the
mid-luteal phase. In ovariectomized marmosets, graded dosages of oestradiol alone
failed to induce the appearance of LIF protein. Progesterone treatment following 
oestradiol priming, however, induced distinct glandular localization of LIF,
indicating that LIF is a progesterone-dependent protein. Thus endometrial LIF is 
under maternal control and is secreted in response to the increased progesterone 
concentrations in circulation. It is possible that high concentrations of LIF
during mid-luteal phase may prepare the endometrium for blastocyst implantation
in marmosets.

DOI: 10.1093/molehr/6.4.337 
PMID: 10729316  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

