

3345. Behav Neurosci. 2000 Feb;114(1):3-17.

The effect of dopamine depletion from the caudate nucleus of the common marmoset 
(Callithrix jacchus) on tests of prefrontal cognitive function.

Collins P(1), Wilkinson LS, Everitt BJ, Robbins TW, Roberts AC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, University of Cambridge, United
Kingdom.

This study examined the effects of depletion of dopamine from the caudate nucleus
of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), on tasks sensitive to prefrontal
damage (attentional set-shifting and spatial delayed response). There was a
marked impairment in performance on the spatial delayed response task, but
performance on the attentional set-shifting task was relatively preserved except 
for an impairment in re-engagement of a previously relevant perceptual dimension.
This pattern of impairment is distinct from that seen after excitotoxic lesions
of the prefrontal cortex and in patients with Parkinson's disease. Though it is
not possible to identify specific cognitive functions that are independent of
dopaminergic modulation of the caudate nucleus, due to the partial nature of the 
lesion, the results do provide insight into those cognitive processes that appear
most dependent on caudate dopamine.

DOI: 10.1037//0735-7044.114.1.3 
PMID: 10718258  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3346. Drug Metabol Drug Interact. 1999;15(4):223-37.

Evidence for the biosynthesis of A glucuronide conjugate of (S)-(-)-nicotine, but
not (S)-(-)-cotinine or (+/-)-trans-3'-hydroxycotinine by marmoset hepatic
microsomes.

Tsai MC(1), Gorrod JW.

Author information: 
(1)Toxicology Unit, John Tabor Laboratories, University of Essex, Colchester, UK.

Recently, the detection of urinary glucuronide conjugates of nicotine and its two
major metabolites, trans-3'-hydroxycotinine and cotinine, showed that
glucuronidation is an important pathway of nicotine metabolism in humans.
(S)-(-)-Nicotine-N(+)-1-beta-glucuronide (quaternary N-glucuronide with linkage
through the pyridino-nitrogen of nicotine) was shown to be an important nicotine 
metabolite of humans in vivo. The present study was undertaken to develop an
animal model for this process, in order to ascertain the factors influencing
quaternary N-glucuronide formation. (S)-(-)-Nicotine-N(+)-1-beta-glucuronide was 
formed in vitro when [2'-14C]-nicotine was incubated with Triton X-100 activated 
marmoset hepatic microsomes in the presence of uridine diphosphoglucuronic acid; 
it was not formed when activated microsomal preparations of rabbit, guinea-pig,
or rat were used as enzyme source. The glucuronide was characterised by
comparison with authentic synthetic (S)-(-)-nicotine-N(+)-1-beta-glucuronide
using HPLC. The rate of formation of the glucuronide was almost linear during up 
to four hours of incubation, but still only accounted for a maximum of 6.0% of
the available substrate at the end of five hours incubation. The synthetic and
biosynthetic (S)-(-)-nicotine-N(+)-1-beta-glucuronides were hydrolysed by
beta-glucuronidase and alkali, but were resistant to acid hydrolysis. The results
support the concept that the marmoset may be a good animal species to mimic man
in studies of nicotine metabolism during exposure to tobacco smoke. In vitro
studies using (+/-)-trans-3'-hydroxycotinine or (S)-(-)-cotinine (as potential
substrate) and [14C]-uridine diphospho-glucuronic acid (as cofactor) failed to
produce any new radiolabelled glucuronide when the above microsomal preparations 
were used.

DOI: 10.1515/dmdi.1999.15.4.223 
PMID: 10716038  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

