

3349. J Immunol. 2000 Mar 15;164(6):3193-9.

Unprecedented polymorphism of Mhc-DRB region configurations in rhesus macaques.

Doxiadis GG(1), Otting N, de Groot NG, Noort R, Bontrop RE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Rijswijk, The
Netherlands. doxiadis@bprc.nl

The rhesus macaque is an important model in preclinical transplantation research 
and for the study of chronic and infectious diseases, and so extensive knowledge 
of its MHC (MhcMamu) is needed. Nucleotide sequencing of exon 2 allowed the
detection of 68 Mamu-DRB alleles. Although most alleles belong to loci/lineages
that have human equivalents, identical Mhc-DRB alleles are not shared between
humans and rhesus macaques. The number of -DRB genes present per haplotype can
vary from two to seven in the rhesus macaque, whereas it ranges from one to four 
in humans. Within a panel of 210 rhesus macaques, 24 Mamu-DRB region
configurations can be distinguished differing in the number and composition of
loci. None of the Mamu-DRB region configurations has been described for any other
species, and only one of them displays major allelic variation giving rise to a
total of 33 Mamu-DRB haplotypes. In the human population, only five HLA-DRB
region configurations were defined, which in contrast to the rhesus macaque
exhibit extensive allelic polymorphism. In comparison with humans, the
unprecedented polymorphism of the Mamu-DRB region configurations may reflect an
alternative strategy of this primate species to cope with pathogens. Because of
the Mamu-DRB diversity, nonhuman primate colonies used for immunological research
should be thoroughly typed to facilitate proper interpretation of results. This
approach will minimize as well the number of animals necessary to conduct
experiments.

DOI: 10.4049/jimmunol.164.6.3193 
PMID: 10706710  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3350. Behav Brain Res. 2000 Mar;108(2):205-11.

Measuring fear and anxiety in the marmoset (Callithrix penicillata) with a novel 
predator confrontation model: effects of diazepam.

Barros M(1), Boere V, Huston JP, Tomaz C.

Author information: 
(1)Primate Center and Department of Physiological Sciences, Institute of Biology,
University of Brasilia, Brazil, DF.

This report describes a new experimental method for measuring fear and anxiety in
Cerrado marmosets (Callithrix penicillata). In order to test the sensitivity of
the behavioral parameters to an anxiolytic substance, the effects of the
benzodiazepine diazepam on the anxiety measures were examined. The strategy was
to use a naturally occurring stimulus known to elicit anxiety and fear in this
species. A taxidermized predator (the wild cat Felis tigrina) was chosen as the
stimulus to induce anxiety-related behaviors on the basis of a preceding study in
which various stimuli were systematically compared in their effectiviness to
induce fear responses. The apparatus consisted of three parallel arms of equal
dimensions, joining two perpendicular arms at each end, thus comprising a figure 
eight-like or five-arm continuous rectangular maze. The wild-cat was placed
outside of one corner of the maze's outer parallel arms. Each subject was
submitted to six treatments given in random order: three drug sessions (diazepam 
1, 2 and 3 mg/kg, i.m.), saline, sham (injection control), and a control session,
involving neither manipulation nor injection. Subjects were placed into the back 
of the chamber, out of sight of the 'predator', 20 min after a treatment and
given free access to the maze for 30 min. The behavioral repertoire was recorded 
via videocamera. The following behaviors were considered to be possible indices
of emotionality relevant to exposure to the predator in the paradigm used:
scratching, scent marking, exploration, frequency and time spent in each of 13
defined sections of the maze. Administration of diazepam induced a significant
reduction in scratching and an increase in the time spent in the vicinity of the 
'predator', as well as in the frequency of exploratory behaviors, indicative of
an anxiolytic effect. Gender did not influence the effect of treatment. These
results suggest that this new ethologically-based test may be a useful method for
studying anxiety and fear-induced avoidance in non-human primates and for
pre-clinical research on psychoactive drugs.

DOI: 10.1016/s0166-4328(99)00153-9 
PMID: 10701664  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

