

3350. Behav Brain Res. 2000 Mar;108(2):205-11.

Measuring fear and anxiety in the marmoset (Callithrix penicillata) with a novel 
predator confrontation model: effects of diazepam.

Barros M(1), Boere V, Huston JP, Tomaz C.

Author information: 
(1)Primate Center and Department of Physiological Sciences, Institute of Biology,
University of Brasilia, Brazil, DF.

This report describes a new experimental method for measuring fear and anxiety in
Cerrado marmosets (Callithrix penicillata). In order to test the sensitivity of
the behavioral parameters to an anxiolytic substance, the effects of the
benzodiazepine diazepam on the anxiety measures were examined. The strategy was
to use a naturally occurring stimulus known to elicit anxiety and fear in this
species. A taxidermized predator (the wild cat Felis tigrina) was chosen as the
stimulus to induce anxiety-related behaviors on the basis of a preceding study in
which various stimuli were systematically compared in their effectiviness to
induce fear responses. The apparatus consisted of three parallel arms of equal
dimensions, joining two perpendicular arms at each end, thus comprising a figure 
eight-like or five-arm continuous rectangular maze. The wild-cat was placed
outside of one corner of the maze's outer parallel arms. Each subject was
submitted to six treatments given in random order: three drug sessions (diazepam 
1, 2 and 3 mg/kg, i.m.), saline, sham (injection control), and a control session,
involving neither manipulation nor injection. Subjects were placed into the back 
of the chamber, out of sight of the 'predator', 20 min after a treatment and
given free access to the maze for 30 min. The behavioral repertoire was recorded 
via videocamera. The following behaviors were considered to be possible indices
of emotionality relevant to exposure to the predator in the paradigm used:
scratching, scent marking, exploration, frequency and time spent in each of 13
defined sections of the maze. Administration of diazepam induced a significant
reduction in scratching and an increase in the time spent in the vicinity of the 
'predator', as well as in the frequency of exploratory behaviors, indicative of
an anxiolytic effect. Gender did not influence the effect of treatment. These
results suggest that this new ethologically-based test may be a useful method for
studying anxiety and fear-induced avoidance in non-human primates and for
pre-clinical research on psychoactive drugs.

DOI: 10.1016/s0166-4328(99)00153-9 
PMID: 10701664  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3351. Endocrinology. 2000 Mar;141(3):995-1000.

Suppression of luteal angiogenesis in the primate after neutralization of
vascular endothelial growth factor.

Fraser HM(1), Dickson SE, Lunn SF, Wulff C, Morris KD, Carroll VA, Bicknell R.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council Reproductive Biology Unit, Center for Reproductive
Biology, Edinburgh, United Kingdom. h.fraser@ed-rbu.mrc.ac.uk

Manipulation of angiogenesis may have a profound effect on female reproductive
function, but this has not yet been demonstrated by direct experiment in species 
with ovulatory cycles similar to those in women. To investigate whether
angiogenesis could be inhibited in the primate corpus luteum, and the
consequences of such inhibition on luteal function, marmosets were treated with
an antibody to vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF). Treatment commenced at 
the time of ovulation and was continued for 3 days (early luteal group) or 10
days (midluteal group). Bromodeoxyuridine was used to label proliferating cells, 
being administered 1 h before collecting ovaries from control and treated animals
in the early or midluteal phase. Ovarian sections were stained using an antibody 
to bromodeoxyuridine, and a proliferation index was obtained; endothelial cell
quantification was performed using factor VIII as an endothelial cell marker.
Intense proliferation in the early luteal phase was suppressed by anti-VEGF
treatment. This resulted in blockade of development of the normally extensive
capillary bed, as in the animals treated until the mid-luteal phase the numbers
of endothelial cells were reduced. The hormone-producing cells remained largely
unaltered in the posttreatment corpus luteum, although the presence of lipid
accumulation, and small pockets of cells showing basophilia and nuclear
condensation were observed. Significantly, luteal function, as judged by
secretion of progesterone, was markedly compromised by the treatment, being
reduced by 60% in comparison with controls. It is concluded that VEGF-mediated
angiogenesis is an essential component of luteal function in primates and
therefore has the potential to be regulated.

DOI: 10.1210/endo.141.3.7369 
PMID: 10698175  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

