

3351. Endocrinology. 2000 Mar;141(3):995-1000.

Suppression of luteal angiogenesis in the primate after neutralization of
vascular endothelial growth factor.

Fraser HM(1), Dickson SE, Lunn SF, Wulff C, Morris KD, Carroll VA, Bicknell R.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council Reproductive Biology Unit, Center for Reproductive
Biology, Edinburgh, United Kingdom. h.fraser@ed-rbu.mrc.ac.uk

Manipulation of angiogenesis may have a profound effect on female reproductive
function, but this has not yet been demonstrated by direct experiment in species 
with ovulatory cycles similar to those in women. To investigate whether
angiogenesis could be inhibited in the primate corpus luteum, and the
consequences of such inhibition on luteal function, marmosets were treated with
an antibody to vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF). Treatment commenced at 
the time of ovulation and was continued for 3 days (early luteal group) or 10
days (midluteal group). Bromodeoxyuridine was used to label proliferating cells, 
being administered 1 h before collecting ovaries from control and treated animals
in the early or midluteal phase. Ovarian sections were stained using an antibody 
to bromodeoxyuridine, and a proliferation index was obtained; endothelial cell
quantification was performed using factor VIII as an endothelial cell marker.
Intense proliferation in the early luteal phase was suppressed by anti-VEGF
treatment. This resulted in blockade of development of the normally extensive
capillary bed, as in the animals treated until the mid-luteal phase the numbers
of endothelial cells were reduced. The hormone-producing cells remained largely
unaltered in the posttreatment corpus luteum, although the presence of lipid
accumulation, and small pockets of cells showing basophilia and nuclear
condensation were observed. Significantly, luteal function, as judged by
secretion of progesterone, was markedly compromised by the treatment, being
reduced by 60% in comparison with controls. It is concluded that VEGF-mediated
angiogenesis is an essential component of luteal function in primates and
therefore has the potential to be regulated.

DOI: 10.1210/endo.141.3.7369 
PMID: 10698175  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3352. Cancer Gene Ther. 2000 Jan;7(1):97-106.

The nitroreductase/CB1954 combination in Epstein-Barr virus-positive B-cell
lines: induction of bystander killing in vitro and in vivo.

Westphal EM(1), Ge J, Catchpole JR, Ford M, Kenney SC.

Author information: 
(1)Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of North Carolina, Chapel
Hill 27599-7295, USA.

Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-based gene delivery vectors that preferentially express 
toxic genes in EBV-infected cells could be used to target EBV-positive tumors for
destruction. We have shown previously that the cytosine deaminase (CD) enzyme,
which converts the prodrug 5-fluorocytosine (5-FC) into the toxic compound
5-fluorouracil efficiently kills EBV-positive cells in the presence of 5-FC, with
a substantial bystander killing effect in vitro and in vivo. To identify the
optimal enzyme/prodrug combination for treating EBV-positive lymphomas, we have
compared the effectiveness of the CD/5-FC combination with the nitroreductase
(NTR)/CB1954 combination for killing EBV-positive B-cell lines. NTR metabolizes
CB1954 into an alkylating agent that cross-links DNA. When the CD gene or the NTR
gene were transfected into two different EBV-positive B-cell lines in vitro,
approximately 90% of cells were killed in a prodrug-dependent manner, although
the transfection efficiency was <5%. However, severe combined immunodeficient
mouse tumors containing either 30% or 100% of NTR-expressing Burkitt lymphoma
(Jijoye) cells were growth inhibited, but not cured, by treatment with
intraperitoneal CB1954 (20 mg/kg/day) for 10 days. These results suggest that the
NTR/CB1954 combination induces efficient bystander killing of EBV-positive B-cell
lines in vitro but may not be as effective as the CD/5-FC combination for
treating B-cell lymphomas in vivo.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.cgt.7700102 
PMID: 10678362  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

