

3356. Folia Primatol (Basel). 2000 Jan-Apr;71(1-2):6-21.

Hormones associated with non-maternal infant care: a review of mammalian and
avian studies.

Ziegler TE(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology and the Wisconsin Regional Primate Research Center,
University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wisconsin 53715, USA. ziegler@primated.wisc.edu

Hormonal changes during non-maternal infant care have been demonstrated in many
cooperatively breeding bird species, some monogamous rodents and two species of
New World primates. Coevolution of hormones and social traits may have provided
for the different breeding systems that occur today. Several hormones have been
shown to covary with the breeding systems of vertebrates. Elevated levels of the 
hormone prolactin with male parenting behaviours are common to many birds,
rodents and the callitrichid monkeys Callithrix jacchus and Saguinus oedipus. In 
birds, prolactin may be elevated in both male and female breeders during various 
stages of nest building, egg laying, incubating and feeding of young.
Testosterone levels appear to have an inverse relationship to prolactin levels
during infant care in birds and rodents, but this relationship has not been
examined for primates. In cooperatively breeding birds, helpers who remain at the
nest also have elevated levels of prolactin when displaying parental care
behaviours. Prolactin levels are elevated in helper callitrichid monkeys during
the postpartum period. Monogamous male rodents demonstrate elevated prolactin
levels with parental care behaviour but, in contrast to the birds, the mechanisms
mediating prolactin increase appear to differ for male and female rodents. Two
factors may influence male parental behaviours and hormonal changes: stimuli from
the pregnant female and stimuli from the newborn pups; whereas maternal
behaviours are influenced by the maternal hormones of the female and the pup
stimuli. An experiential factor may also influence male parental behaviours.
Neuropeptides such as oxytocin and vasopressin appear to be involved in male
rodent parental care and there may be an interaction between a series of hormones
and neurosecretions and stimuli from mates and pups. Studies of Saguinus oedipus,
the cotton-top tamarin, suggest that prolactin levels are responsive to stimuli
from contact with infants and the level of infant care experience influences the 
levels of prolactin with male infant care. Father tamarins also have elevated
levels of prolactin before the birth of infants suggesting that cues from the
pregnant female are important. Prolactin's role in parental care may have evolved
from prolactin's role in other reproductive functions. Hormonal regulation of
non-maternal care may occur due to a complex interaction of many hormones and
neurotransmitters. Studies described here should provide the impetus for further 
work on parental care hormones in a wide variety of primates.

Copyright 2000 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 10.1159/000021726 
PMID: 10686483  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3357. Eur J Pharmacol. 2000 Feb 11;389(1):41-9.

Species selectivity of a small molecule antagonist for the CCR1 chemokine
receptor.

Liang M(1), Rosser M, Ng HP, May K, Bauman JG, Islam I, Ghannam A, Kretschmer PJ,
Pu H, Dunning L, Snider RM, Morrissey MM, Hesselgesser J, Perez HD, Horuk R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmaceuticals Discovery, Berlex Biosciences, Richmond, CA,
USA. meina_liang@berlex.com

The species specificity of a small molecule antagonist for the human CCR1
chemokine receptor, 2-2-diphenyl-5-(4-chlorophenyl)piperidin-1-yl)valeronitrile
(CCR1 antagonist 1), has been examined using cloned CCR1 receptors from various
species. The compound was able to bind to rabbit, marmoset, and human CCR1, and
was able to block the functional activation of these receptors. However, it
failed to significantly displace radiolabeled macrophage inflammatory
protein-1alpha (MIP-1alpha) binding to mouse CCR1 at concentrations up to 10
microM. These data suggested that the antagonist binding site is well-conserved
in rabbit, marmoset and human CCR1, but not in mouse CCR1. The functional
selectivity and mechanism of action for CCR1 antagonist 1 were further
characterized. CCR1 antagonist 1 blocked the increase in intracellular Ca(2+)
stimulated by CCR1 agonists, but had no effect on N-formyl-Met-Leu-Phe (FMLP),
monocyte chemotactic protein-1 (MCP-1) and stromal-derived factor 1alpha
(SDF1alpha)-induced Ca(2+) mobilization, demonstrating functional selectivity for
CCR1. Since CCR1 antagonist 1 is a functional antagonist of marmoset and rabbit
CCR1 receptors, it should be possible to test its efficacy in animal models of
disease.

DOI: 10.1016/s0014-2999(99)00863-8 
PMID: 10686294  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

