

3357. Eur J Pharmacol. 2000 Feb 11;389(1):41-9.

Species selectivity of a small molecule antagonist for the CCR1 chemokine
receptor.

Liang M(1), Rosser M, Ng HP, May K, Bauman JG, Islam I, Ghannam A, Kretschmer PJ,
Pu H, Dunning L, Snider RM, Morrissey MM, Hesselgesser J, Perez HD, Horuk R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmaceuticals Discovery, Berlex Biosciences, Richmond, CA,
USA. meina_liang@berlex.com

The species specificity of a small molecule antagonist for the human CCR1
chemokine receptor, 2-2-diphenyl-5-(4-chlorophenyl)piperidin-1-yl)valeronitrile
(CCR1 antagonist 1), has been examined using cloned CCR1 receptors from various
species. The compound was able to bind to rabbit, marmoset, and human CCR1, and
was able to block the functional activation of these receptors. However, it
failed to significantly displace radiolabeled macrophage inflammatory
protein-1alpha (MIP-1alpha) binding to mouse CCR1 at concentrations up to 10
microM. These data suggested that the antagonist binding site is well-conserved
in rabbit, marmoset and human CCR1, but not in mouse CCR1. The functional
selectivity and mechanism of action for CCR1 antagonist 1 were further
characterized. CCR1 antagonist 1 blocked the increase in intracellular Ca(2+)
stimulated by CCR1 agonists, but had no effect on N-formyl-Met-Leu-Phe (FMLP),
monocyte chemotactic protein-1 (MCP-1) and stromal-derived factor 1alpha
(SDF1alpha)-induced Ca(2+) mobilization, demonstrating functional selectivity for
CCR1. Since CCR1 antagonist 1 is a functional antagonist of marmoset and rabbit
CCR1 receptors, it should be possible to test its efficacy in animal models of
disease.

DOI: 10.1016/s0014-2999(99)00863-8 
PMID: 10686294  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3358. Hum Reprod. 2000 Mar;15(3):557-66.

Cell proliferation and vascular morphology in the marmoset corpus luteum.

Young FM(1), Rodger FE, Illingworth PJ, Fraser HM.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Reproductive Biology Unit, Centre for Reproductive Biology, 37 Chalmers
Street, Edinburgh EH3 9EW, UK.

Luteal formation is associated with angiogenesis and low progesterone production.
Maximal mid-luteal phase progesterone production is concurrent with extensive
vascularization, and luteolysis occurs when steroidogenesis decreases. Angiogenic
cell proliferation and vascular changes have not been examined in the marmoset.
The aim of this study was to examine vascular morphology throughout the luteal
phase by identifying: (i) von Willebrand factor VIII antigen (vW)-immunopositive 
endothelial cells; (ii) Ki67-positive proliferating cells; and (iii)
bromodeoxyuridine-positive proliferating cells. Marmoset corpora lutea were
examined throughout the cycle, and natural regression was compared with induced
luteolysis after administration of a prostaglandin F(2alpha) analogue or
gonadotrophin-releasing hormone (GnRH) antagonist. Steroidogenic and endothelial 
cells were positive for proliferation markers. Endothelial cell proliferation was
highest during luteal formation, then decreased and remained low during the
luteal phase and functional regression, however endothelial cell proliferation
increased during structural regression. Endothelial cell proliferation was
unchanged by induced regression. The area of vW immunostaining was highest during
luteal formation, decreased thereafter and remained constant during the luteal
phase and regression. Distribution of immunostaining indicated the presence of an
extensive capillary network, but during structural regression the numbers of
capillaries decreased and numbers of microvessels increased. These results
suggest that vascular changes are concurrent with changes in the functional
status of the marmoset corpus luteum.

DOI: 10.1093/humrep/15.3.557 
PMID: 10686196  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

