

3358. Hum Reprod. 2000 Mar;15(3):557-66.

Cell proliferation and vascular morphology in the marmoset corpus luteum.

Young FM(1), Rodger FE, Illingworth PJ, Fraser HM.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Reproductive Biology Unit, Centre for Reproductive Biology, 37 Chalmers
Street, Edinburgh EH3 9EW, UK.

Luteal formation is associated with angiogenesis and low progesterone production.
Maximal mid-luteal phase progesterone production is concurrent with extensive
vascularization, and luteolysis occurs when steroidogenesis decreases. Angiogenic
cell proliferation and vascular changes have not been examined in the marmoset.
The aim of this study was to examine vascular morphology throughout the luteal
phase by identifying: (i) von Willebrand factor VIII antigen (vW)-immunopositive 
endothelial cells; (ii) Ki67-positive proliferating cells; and (iii)
bromodeoxyuridine-positive proliferating cells. Marmoset corpora lutea were
examined throughout the cycle, and natural regression was compared with induced
luteolysis after administration of a prostaglandin F(2alpha) analogue or
gonadotrophin-releasing hormone (GnRH) antagonist. Steroidogenic and endothelial 
cells were positive for proliferation markers. Endothelial cell proliferation was
highest during luteal formation, then decreased and remained low during the
luteal phase and functional regression, however endothelial cell proliferation
increased during structural regression. Endothelial cell proliferation was
unchanged by induced regression. The area of vW immunostaining was highest during
luteal formation, decreased thereafter and remained constant during the luteal
phase and regression. Distribution of immunostaining indicated the presence of an
extensive capillary network, but during structural regression the numbers of
capillaries decreased and numbers of microvessels increased. These results
suggest that vascular changes are concurrent with changes in the functional
status of the marmoset corpus luteum.

DOI: 10.1093/humrep/15.3.557 
PMID: 10686196  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3359. Neuroreport. 2000 Jan 17;11(1):1-4.

Unipolar brush cells in marmoset cerebellum and cochlear nuclei express
calbindin.

Spatz WB(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oto-Rhino-Laryngology, University of Freiburg, Germany.

Unipolar brush cells (UBCs) are excitatory neurons in the mammalian cerebellum
and cochlear nuclei (CN), including the CN of primates, as shown only recently.
UBCs are readily identified by their expression of the calcium-binding protein
calretinin (CR), except for those of the primate CN that hardly immunostain for
CR. The present findings corroborate the existence of UBCs in the CN of a
primate, Callithrix. Furthermore, evidence is presented for UBCs, in the
cerebellum and a small subpopulation of UBCs in the CN of Callithrix to express
the calcium-binding protein calbindin (CB). This may be unique for Callithrix as 
CB-expressing UBCs have not been recognized in any other mammal. Presence of CB
but not CR in UBCs of the Callithrix CN may indicate a certain interchangeability
between these two calcium-binding proteins.

DOI: 10.1097/00001756-200001170-00001 
PMID: 10683819  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

