

336. J Hum Evol. 2020 May;142:102767. doi: 10.1016/j.jhevol.2020.102767. Epub 2020 Mar
30.

Not all fine-branch locomotion is equal: Grasping morphology determines locomotor
performance on narrow supports.

Young JW(1), Chadwell BA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy and Neurobiology, Northeast Ohio Medical University
(NEOMED), Rootstown, OH 44272, USA; Musculoskeletal Biology Research Focus Area, 
NEOMED, Rootstown, OH 44272, USA; School of Biomedical Sciences, Kent State
University, Kent, OH 44240, USA. Electronic address: jwyoung@neomed.edu.
(2)Department of Anatomy, Idaho College of Osteopathic Medicine, Meridian, ID
83642, USA.

Fine-branch models have long played a central role in primate evolutionary
research. Nevertheless, recent studies of positional behavior in nonprimate
arboreal mammals have challenged the idea that synapomorphic primate features,
such as grasping extremities, uniquely facilitated access to the fine-branch
zone. We test the alternative hypothesis that grasping extremities specifically
improve locomotor performance in a fine-branch environment by examining how
support diameter influences locomotor mechanics in one sciurid rodent (Sciurus
carolinensis) and two platyrrhine primates (Callithrix jacchus and Saimiri
boliviensis). These species were chosen to broadly model different stages in the 
evolution of primate grasping morphology. The results showed that transitioning
from broad to narrower supports required the greatest kinematic adjustment in
squirrels and the least adjustment in squirrel monkeys, with marmosets displaying
an intermediate level of adjustment. Moreover, on any given support, squirrels'
locomotor mechanics differed from marmosets' in a manner consistent with a
greater need for stability, despite superficial ecomorphological similarities
between sciurid rodents and callitrichine primates. Morphological analyses of
autopodial size and proportions suggest that variation in locomotor performance
more closely tracked variation in overall hand and foot size rather than digit
length per se. Indeed, a broad comparative analysis revealed that for their body 
mass, primates have longer hands than similarly sized arboreal rodents and
marsupials (although only the primate-rodent comparison was significant after
incorporating phylogenetic relatedness). Inclusion of fossil stem primates
(plesiadapiforms) and euprimates (adapiforms) in these analyses suggests that
this primate-wide grade shift in relative autopodial size must have occurred
early in the evolutionary history of the group. Overall, our findings show that
basal primate morphological adaptations may have specifically facilitated
improved locomotor performance in a fine-branch niche, rather than merely
permitting access to the environment. As such, future adaptive hypotheses of
primate origins should incorporate the import of primate-like morphology on
locomotor performance as well.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhevol.2020.102767 
PMID: 32240883  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


337. Mol Hum Reprod. 2020 Jun 1;26(6):374-388. doi: 10.1093/molehr/gaaa024.

The initial maturation status of marmoset testicular tissues has an impact on
germ cell maintenance and somatic cell response in tissue fragment culture.

Heckmann L(1), Langenstroth-Röwer D(1), Wistuba J(1), Portela JMD(2), van Pelt
AMM(2), Redmann K(1), Stukenborg JB(3), Schlatt S(1), Neuhaus N(1).

Author information: 
(1)Centre of Reproductive Medicine and Andrology, Institute of Reproductive and
Regenerative Biology, Albert-Schweitzer-Campus 1, Building D11, 48149 Münster,
Germany.
(2)Center for Reproductive Medicine, Research Institute Reproduction and
Development, Amsterdam UMC, University of Amsterdam, Meibergdreef 9, 1105 AZ
Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(3)NORDFERTIL Research Lab Stockholm, Childhood Cancer Research Unit, Department 
of Women's and Children's Health, Karolinska Institutet and Karolinska University
Hospital, 17164 Solna, Sweden.

Successful in vitro spermatogenesis was reported using immature mouse testicular 
tissues in a fragment culture approach, raising hopes that this method could also
be applied for fertility preservation in humans. Although maintaining immature
human testicular tissue fragments in culture is feasible for an extended period, 
it remains unknown whether germ cell survival and the somatic cell response
depend on the differentiation status of tissue. Employing the marmoset monkey
(Callithrix jacchus), we aimed to assess whether the maturation status of
prepubertal and peri-/pubertal testicular tissues influence the outcome of testis
fragment culture. Testicular tissue fragments from 4- and 8-month-old (n = 3,
each) marmosets were cultured and evaluated after 0, 7, 14, 28 and 42 days.
Immunohistochemistry was performed for identification and quantification of germ 
cells (melanoma-associated antigen 4) and Sertoli cell maturation status
(anti-Müllerian hormone: AMH). During testis fragment culture, spermatogonial
numbers were significantly reduced (P < 0.05) in the 4- but not 8-month-old
monkeys, at Day 0 versus Day 42 of culture. Moreover, while Sertoli cells from
4-month-old monkeys maintained an immature phenotype (i.e. AMH expression) during
culture, AMH expression was regained in two of the 8-month-old monkeys.
Interestingly, progression of differentiation to later meiotic stage was solely
observed in one 8-month-old marmoset, which was at an intermediate state
regarding germ cell content, with gonocytes as well as spermatocytes present, as 
well as Sertoli cell maturation status. Although species-specific differences
might influence the outcome of testis fragment experiments in vitro, our study
demonstrated that the developmental status of the testicular tissues needs to be 
considered as it seems to be decisive for germ cell maintenance, somatic cell
response and possibly the differentiation potential.

© The Author(s) 2020. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the
European Society of Human Reproduction and Embryology. All rights reserved. For
permissions, please e-mail: journals.permission@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/molehr/gaaa024 
PMID: 32236422  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

