

3361. J Virol. 2000 Mar;74(6):2550-7.

The Epstein-Barr virus pol catalytic subunit physically interacts with the
BBLF4-BSLF1-BBLF2/3 complex.

Fujii K(1), Yokoyama N, Kiyono T, Kuzushima K, Homma M, Nishiyama Y, Fujita M,
Tsurumi T.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Virology, Aichi Cancer Center Research Institute, Chikusa-ku,
Nagoya 464-8681, Japan.

The Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-encoded replication proteins that account for the
basic reactions at the replication fork are thought to be the EBV Pol holoenzyme,
consisting of the BALF5 Pol catalytic and the BMRF1 Pol accessory subunits, the
putative helicase-primase complex, comprising the BBLF4, BSLF1, and BBLF2/3
proteins, and the BALF2 single-stranded DNA-binding protein. Immunoprecipitation 
analyses using anti-BSLF1 or anti-BBLF2/3 protein-specific antibody with
clarified lysates of B95-8 cells in a viral productive cycle suggested that the
EBV Pol holoenzyme physically interacts with the BBLF4-BSLF1-BBLF2/3 complex to
form a large complex. Although the complex was stable in 500 mM NaCl and 1%
NP-40, the BALF5 protein became dissociated in the presence of 0.1% sodium
dodecyl sulfate. Experiments using lysates from insect cells superinfected with
combinations of recombinant baculoviruses capable of expressing each of viral
replication proteins showed that not the BMRF1 Pol accessory subunit but rather
the BALF5 Pol catalytic subunit directly interacts with the BBLF4-BSLF1-BBLF2/3
complex. Furthermore, double infection with pairs of recombinant viruses revealed
that each component of the BBLF4-BSLF1-BBLF2/3 complex makes contact with the
BALF5 Pol catalytic subunit. The interactions of the EBV DNA polymerase with the 
EBV putative helicase-primase complex warrant particular attention because they
are thought to coordinate leading- and lagging-strand DNA synthesis at the
replication fork.

DOI: 10.1128/jvi.74.6.2550-2557.2000 
PMCID: PMC111743
PMID: 10684269  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3362. Anat Embryol (Berl). 2000 Feb;201(2):111-20.

"Rodent-like" and "primate-like" types of astroglial architecture in the adult
cerebral cortex of mammals: a comparative study.

Colombo JA(1), Fuchs E, Härtig W, Marotte LR, Puissant V.

Author information: 
(1)Programa Unidad de Neurobiología Aplicada (PRUNA) (CEMIC-CONICET), Buenos
Aires, Argentina. colombo@pruna.gov.ar

Previous observations disclosed that astroglia with interlaminar processes were
present in the cerebral cortex of adult New and Old World monkeys, but not in the
rat, and scarcely in the prosimian Microcebus murinus. The present report is a
more systematic and comprehensive comparative analysis of the occurrence of such 
processes in the cerebral cortex of several mammalian species. Brain samples were
obtained from adult individuals from the following orders: Carnivora (canine),
Rodentia (rat and mouse), Marsupialia (Macropus eugenii), Artiodactyl (bovine and
ovine), Scandentia (Tupaia glis), Chiroptera (Cynopteris horsfieldii and C.
brachyotis), and Primate: Prosimian (Eulemur fulvus), non-human primate species
(Cebus apella, Saimiri boliviensis, Callithrix, Macaca mulatta, Papio hamadryas, 
Macaca fascicularis, Cercopithecus campbelli and C. ascanius) and from a human
autopsy. Tissues were processed for immunocytochemistry using several antibodies 
directed against glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), with or without
additional procedures aimed at the retrieval of antigens and enhancement of their
immunocytochemical expression. The cerebral cortex of non-primate species had an 
almost exclusive layout of stellate astrocytes, with only the occasional presence
of long GFAP-IR processes in the dog that barely crossed the extent of lamina I, 
which in this species had comparatively increased thickness. Species of
Insectivora and Chiroptera showed presence of astrocytes with long processes
limited to the ventral basal cortex. Interlaminar GFAP-IR processes were absent
in Eulemur fulvus, at variance with their limited presence and large within- and 
inter-individual variability as reported previously in Microcebus murinus. In New
World monkeys such processes were absent in Callithrix samples, at variance with 
Cebus apella and Saimirí boliviensis. Overall, the expression of GFAP-IR
interlaminar processes followed a progressive pattern: bulk of non-primate
species (lack of interlaminar processes)--Chiroptera and Insectivora (processes
restricted to allocortex) < strepsirhini < haplorhini (platirrhini < catarrhini).
This trend is suggestive of the emergence of new evolutionary traits in the
organization of the cerebral cortex, namely, the emergence of GFAP-IR long,
interlaminar processes in the primate brain. Interlaminar processes may
participate in a spatially restricted astroglial role, as compared to the one
provided by the astroglial syncytium. It is proposed that the widely accepted
concept of an exclusively astroglial syncytium is probably linked with a specific
laboratory animal species ("rodent-type" or, rather, "general mammalian-type"
model) that misrepresents the astroglial architecture present in the cerebral
cortex of most anthropoid adult primates ("primate-type" model), including man.

DOI: 10.1007/pl00008231 
PMID: 10672363  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

