

3366. J Reprod Fertil. 1999 Sep;117(1):107-14.

Marmoset monkey trophoblastic tissue growth and matrix metalloproteinase
secretion in culture.

Franek AD(1), Salamonsen LA, Lopata A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, University of Melbourne, Royal
Women's Hospital, Carlton, Victoria, Australia.

Marmoset monkey blastocysts maintained in culture produced trophoblastic vesicles
up to 4 mm in diameter that were subdivided into fragments and subcultured to
produce new vesicles. These tissues are composed of an outer layer of
trophoblast-like cells and an inner layer of endoderm-like cells, and resemble a 
blastocyst wall. When such vesicles were cultured in serum-free medium for 14
days, they increased in size but there was no significant difference in their
protein content at the end of culture. The proliferation index, measured by BrdU 
incorporation, varied considerably within and between vesicles. The purpose of
this investigation was to determine which matrix metalloproteinases are secreted 
by marmoset monkey trophoblastic tissue in vitro, and the effect of extracellular
laminin on this secretion. It was determined by zymography that the vesicles
secreted matrix metalloproteinase 2, but not matrix metalloproteinase 9, and that
matrix metalloproteinase 2 was secreted as the proenzyme (72 kDa). Matrix
metalloproteinases 1, 3 and 7 were not detectable in the culture medium. The
addition of laminin (5-20 micrograms ml-1), either as a substrate or in solution 
in the medium, did not have a consistent effect on matrix metalloproteinase 2
secretion during the culture period. The vesicles were found to express both
matrix metalloproteinases 2 and 9 in both types of cell when examined by
immunohistochemistry. The expression of matrix metalloproteinase 9 in the
vesicles, but the absence of its secretion, indicates that specific factors,
possibly of endometrial origin, may be required for inducing secretion.

DOI: 10.1530/jrf.0.1170107 
PMID: 10645251  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3367. J Reprod Fertil. 1999 Sep;117(1):61-70.

Expression of growth factor ligand and receptor genes in preimplantation stage
water buffalo (Bubalus bubalis) embryos and oviduct epithelial cells.

Daliri M(1), Rao KB, Kaur G, Garg S, Patil S, Totey SM.

Author information: 
(1)Embryo Biotechnology Laboratory, National Institute of Immunology, Aruna Asaf 
Ali Marg, New Delhi, India.

The temporal pattern of expression of genes for several growth factor ligands and
receptors was examined in preimplantation water buffalo embryos and oviduct
epithelial cells using RT-PCR. The identity of the resulting PCR products was
confirmed by their expected size, restriction analysis, Southern blot
hybridization and nucleotide sequence analysis. Preimplantation stage embryos
from the one-cell to the blastocyst stage were derived after maturation,
fertilization and culture of oocytes in vitro. Expression of members of the
insulin-like growth factor (IGF) family was observed predominantly in
preimplantation stage embryos and oviduct epithelial cells. Similarly,
transcripts encoding insulin and IGF-I receptors were detected at each stage of
embryonic development. The mRNA transcript of the IGF-I receptor was not detected
in oviduct epithelial cells, but a prominent band corresponding to the insulin
receptor was observed. Insulin and IGF-II mRNA were expressed as maternal
transcripts that were not detected at the two- to four-cell stage but were
present as zygotic transcripts at the eight-cell stage. Transcripts encoding
IGF-I were detected in oviduct epithelial cells, but were not observed in any of 
the preimplantation stage embryos. Transforming growth factor (TGF) alpha and
beta and epidermal growth factor mRNA transcripts were not detected in any of the
preimplantation stage embryos. These results indicate that IGF-I acts via a
paracrine mechanism to promote growth and development of preimplantation water
buffalo embryos. Similarly, IGF-II appears to act through a heterologous
autocrine mechanism via the IGF-I or the insulin receptor. Furthermore, the
presence of TGF-alpha in oviduct epithelial cells indicates that it may have a
critical role during development.

DOI: 10.1530/jrf.0.1170061 
PMID: 10645246  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

