

3367. J Reprod Fertil. 1999 Sep;117(1):61-70.

Expression of growth factor ligand and receptor genes in preimplantation stage
water buffalo (Bubalus bubalis) embryos and oviduct epithelial cells.

Daliri M(1), Rao KB, Kaur G, Garg S, Patil S, Totey SM.

Author information: 
(1)Embryo Biotechnology Laboratory, National Institute of Immunology, Aruna Asaf 
Ali Marg, New Delhi, India.

The temporal pattern of expression of genes for several growth factor ligands and
receptors was examined in preimplantation water buffalo embryos and oviduct
epithelial cells using RT-PCR. The identity of the resulting PCR products was
confirmed by their expected size, restriction analysis, Southern blot
hybridization and nucleotide sequence analysis. Preimplantation stage embryos
from the one-cell to the blastocyst stage were derived after maturation,
fertilization and culture of oocytes in vitro. Expression of members of the
insulin-like growth factor (IGF) family was observed predominantly in
preimplantation stage embryos and oviduct epithelial cells. Similarly,
transcripts encoding insulin and IGF-I receptors were detected at each stage of
embryonic development. The mRNA transcript of the IGF-I receptor was not detected
in oviduct epithelial cells, but a prominent band corresponding to the insulin
receptor was observed. Insulin and IGF-II mRNA were expressed as maternal
transcripts that were not detected at the two- to four-cell stage but were
present as zygotic transcripts at the eight-cell stage. Transcripts encoding
IGF-I were detected in oviduct epithelial cells, but were not observed in any of 
the preimplantation stage embryos. Transforming growth factor (TGF) alpha and
beta and epidermal growth factor mRNA transcripts were not detected in any of the
preimplantation stage embryos. These results indicate that IGF-I acts via a
paracrine mechanism to promote growth and development of preimplantation water
buffalo embryos. Similarly, IGF-II appears to act through a heterologous
autocrine mechanism via the IGF-I or the insulin receptor. Furthermore, the
presence of TGF-alpha in oviduct epithelial cells indicates that it may have a
critical role during development.

DOI: 10.1530/jrf.0.1170061 
PMID: 10645246  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3368. Int J Androl. 1999 Dec;22(6):374-84.

Expression of the integrin subunits alpha 5, alpha 6 and beta 1 in the testes of 
the common marmoset.

Husen B(1), Giebel J, Rune G.

Author information: 
(1)University of Greifswald, Germany.

Integrin subunits alpha 5, alpha 6 and beta 1 were localized in the testis of
pre-pubertal or adult non-human primates (Callithrix jacchus) by
immunofluorescence staining and in situ hybridization. In animals of all ages
subunits alpha 5 and beta 1 were localized in cells of the lamina propria of the 
seminiferous epithelium. In prepubertal animals, the integrin subunits alpha 5,
alpha 6, as well as beta 1, were distributed all over the plasma membrane of
Sertoli cells. In adult animals the integrin subunits were confined to those
plasma membrane regions of Sertoli cells which are assigned to the basal
compartment, including the basement membrane of the seminiferous tubules. Protein
expression of integrin subunits alpha 6 and beta 1 was most pronounced in tubular
stages in which elongated spermatids were not yet present in the adluminal
compartment of the epithelium, suggesting that these integrin subunits are
particularly essential at certain developmental stages of spermatogenesis.
Non-radioactive in situ hybridization revealed that the mRNA for integrin
subunits alpha 5, alpha 6 and beta 1 was expressed by Sertoli cells. In situ
hybridization, together with immunofluorescence data, shows that these integrin
subunits were exclusively synthesized in Sertoli cells. As to functional aspects,
it is concluded that during primate spermatogenesis. Sertoli cell integrins may
be involved in both cell matrix as well as cell-cell interactions, particularly
during early spermatogenesis.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2605.1999.00195.x 
PMID: 10624606  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

