

3378. J Endocrinol. 1999 Dec;163(3):447-56.

Isolation and characterisation of the marmoset gonadotrophin releasing hormone
receptor: Ser(140) of the DRS motif is substituted by Phe.

Byrne B(1), McGregor A, Taylor PL, Sellar R, Rodger FE, Fraser HM, Eidne KA.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Reproductive Biology Unit, 37 Chalmers St, Edinburgh EH3 9EW, UK.
Bernadette-Cons.Byrne@eu.phu.com

In order to facilitate the understanding of gonadotrophin-releasing hormone
(GnRH) agonist and antagonist action in the primate animal model, the marmoset
GnRH receptor (GnRH-R) was cloned and characterised. It was shown to have 95% and
85% sequence identity with the human and rat GnRH-Rs, respectively, and, when
transiently expressed in COS-7 cells, it exhibited high-affinity des-Gly(10),
[d-Trp(6)]-GnRH binding, with a K(d) value similar to those of both the rat and
human forms, but with a greatly reduced B(max) value. The ED(50) for production
of GnRH-induced total inositol phosphate (IP) for the marmoset GnRH-R was also
similar to those of the rat and the human, but the maximal response compared with
the rat receptor was markedly reduced. In all mammalian forms of the GnRH-R
cloned to date, the conserved DRY region of G-protein-coupled receptors is
substituted with DRS. The most interesting feature of the marmoset GnRH-R was the
substitution of this motif with DRF. In order to investigate the DRS to DRF
substitution, a Ser(140)Phe rat GnRH-R mutant was generated. The mutant had a
K(d) value similar to that of the wild-type rat receptor, although the B(max)
value was slightly lower, indicating that expression of functional mutant
receptor at the cell surface was reduced. The ED(50) value for IP production was 
also similar to that of the wild-type receptor, with a reduction in maximal
response. The level of internalisation for the rat wild-type and mutant GnRH-R
constructs was also assessed and the Ser(140)Phe mutant was shown to have an
increased rate of receptor internalisation, suggesting a role for this residue in
regulating internalisation. These results show that the marmoset GnRH-R exhibits 
a substitution in the DRS motif and that this substitution may play a part in
desensitisation and internalisation events.

DOI: 10.1677/joe.0.1630447 
PMID: 10588818  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3379. Brain. 1999 Dec;122 ( Pt 12):2321-35.

Primary CA1 and conditionally immortal MHP36 cell grafts restore conditional
discrimination learning and recall in marmosets after excitotoxic lesions of the 
hippocampal CA1 field.

Virley D(1), Ridley RM, Sinden JD, Kershaw TR, Harland S, Rashid T, French S,
Sowinski P, Gray JA, Lantos PL, Hodges H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, ReNeuron Ltd, Institute of Psychiatry, London, UK.

Common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus, n = 18) were trained to discriminate
between rewarded and non-rewarded objects (simple discriminations, SDs) and to
make conditional discriminations (CDs) when presented sequentially with two
different pairs of identical objects signifying reward either in the right or
left food well of the Wisconsin General Test Apparatus. After bilateral
N-methyl-D-aspartate (0.12 M) lesions through the cornu ammonis-1 (CA1) field (7 
microl in five sites), marmosets showed profound impairment in recall of CDs but 
not SDs, and were assigned to lesion only, lesion plus CA1 grafts and lesion plus
Maudsley hippocampal cell line, clone 36 (MHP36) grafts groups matched for
lesion-induced impairment. Cell suspension grafts (4 microl, 15-25 000
cells/microl) of cells dissected from the CA1 region of foetal brain at embryonic
day 94-96, or of conditionally immortalized MHP36 cells, derived from the
H-2Kb-tsA58 transgenic mouse neuroepithelium and labelled with [3H]thymidine,
were infused at the lesion sites. The lesion plus MHP36 grafts group was injected
five times per week with cyclosporin A (10 mg/kg) throughout testing. Lesion,
grafted and intact control marmosets (n = 4-5/group) were tested on recall of SDs
and CDs learned before lesioning and on acquisition of four new CDs over a
6-month period. Lesioned animals were highly impaired in recall and acquisition
of CD tasks, but recall of SDs was not significantly disrupted. Both grafted
groups of marmosets showed improvement to control level in recall of CDs. They
were significantly slower in learning the first new CD task, but mastered the
remaining tasks as efficiently as controls and were substantially superior to the
lesion-only group. Visualized by Nissl staining, foetal grafts formed clumps of
pyramidal-like cells within the denervated CA1 field, or jutted into the lateral 
ventricles. MHP36 cells, identified by beta-galactosidase staining and
autoradiography, showed neuronal and astrocytic morphology, and were distributed 
evenly throughout the CA1 region. The results indicate that MHP36 cell grafts are
as functionally effective as foetal grafts and appear to integrate into the host 
brain in a structurally appropriate manner, showing the capacity to differentiate
into both mature neurons and glia, and to develop morphologies appropriate to the
site of migration. These findings, which parallel the facilitative effects of
foetal and MHP36 grafts in rats with ischaemic CA1 damage, offer encouragement
for the development of conditionally immortal neuroepithelial stem cell lines for
grafting in conditions of severe amnesia and hippocampal damage following
recovery from cardiac arrest or other global ischaemic episodes.

DOI: 10.1093/brain/122.12.2321 
PMID: 10581225  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

