

3383. Am J Primatol. 1999 Dec;49(4):285-96.

What is a marmoset?

Haig D(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Organismic and Evolutionary Biology, Harvard University,
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA. dhaig@oeb.harvard.edu

Callitrichid primates typically give birth to twin offspring that are somatic
chimeras of cells derived from two products of conception. Each individual is
thus the phenotype of two sibling genotypes, one of which may be more closely
related to the germ line of the individual's parents than to the individual's own
germ line. Chimerism could therefore help to explain the evolution of
alloparental care and social suppression of reproduction in callitrichids.
Placental chimerism may also have important implications for understanding kin
interactions within the womb: on one side of the coin, the intimate juxtaposition
of genotypes provides unique opportunities for antagonistic interactions between 
embryos; on the other side, chimerism could facilitate cooperation between
sibling genotypes.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1098-2345(199912)49:4<285::AID-AJP1>3.0.CO;2-X 
PMID: 10553958  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3384. Anim Behav. 1999 Sep;58(3):501-513.

Social determinants of reproductive failure in male common marmosets housed with 
their natal family.

Baker JV(1), Abbott DH, Saltzman W.

Author information: 
(1)Wisconsin Regional Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin, Madison

Postpubertal male common marmosets, Callithrix jacchus, engage in little or no
sexual behaviour while living with their natal families. The social mechanisms
underlying this phenomenon have not been identified but have been assumed to
include reproductive suppression by dominant males and/or avoidance of mating
with closely related females. We evaluated these two possible components of male 
reproductive failure. Seven postpubertal males and their fathers underwent a
series of 45-min sex tests, in which the son, the father, or the son and father
together were allowed to interact freely with the mother/mate or with an
unfamiliar, unrelated adult female. We measured testosterone, luteinizing hormone
and cortisol concentrations in blood samples collected from males immediately
following each test, and in basal blood samples collected on three different
occasions. Sons, but not fathers, engaged in very low rates of sexual behaviour
when tested with the mother/mate. When tested with unrelated females, however,
sons engaged in significantly more sexual behaviour than they had when tested
with their mothers and showed no differences from their fathers. When sons and
fathers were tested together, both males performed significantly less sexual
behaviour than when tested alone with a female; however, they showed no overt
competition for females and engaged in little agonism. Hormone levels did not
differ significantly between fathers and sons. These results indicate that
avoidance of mating with familiar females and possibly father-son competition,
but not specific, rank-related suppression, contribute to reproductive failure
among postpubertal male marmosets living with their natal family. Copyright 1999 
The Association for the Study of Animal Behaviour.

DOI: 10.1006/anbe.1999.1200 
PMID: 10479365 

