

3384. Anim Behav. 1999 Sep;58(3):501-513.

Social determinants of reproductive failure in male common marmosets housed with 
their natal family.

Baker JV(1), Abbott DH, Saltzman W.

Author information: 
(1)Wisconsin Regional Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin, Madison

Postpubertal male common marmosets, Callithrix jacchus, engage in little or no
sexual behaviour while living with their natal families. The social mechanisms
underlying this phenomenon have not been identified but have been assumed to
include reproductive suppression by dominant males and/or avoidance of mating
with closely related females. We evaluated these two possible components of male 
reproductive failure. Seven postpubertal males and their fathers underwent a
series of 45-min sex tests, in which the son, the father, or the son and father
together were allowed to interact freely with the mother/mate or with an
unfamiliar, unrelated adult female. We measured testosterone, luteinizing hormone
and cortisol concentrations in blood samples collected from males immediately
following each test, and in basal blood samples collected on three different
occasions. Sons, but not fathers, engaged in very low rates of sexual behaviour
when tested with the mother/mate. When tested with unrelated females, however,
sons engaged in significantly more sexual behaviour than they had when tested
with their mothers and showed no differences from their fathers. When sons and
fathers were tested together, both males performed significantly less sexual
behaviour than when tested alone with a female; however, they showed no overt
competition for females and engaged in little agonism. Hormone levels did not
differ significantly between fathers and sons. These results indicate that
avoidance of mating with familiar females and possibly father-son competition,
but not specific, rank-related suppression, contribute to reproductive failure
among postpubertal male marmosets living with their natal family. Copyright 1999 
The Association for the Study of Animal Behaviour.

DOI: 10.1006/anbe.1999.1200 
PMID: 10479365 


3385. Biol Reprod. 1999 Dec;61(6):1468-79.

Luteal regression in the primate: different forms of cell death during naturaland
gonadotropin-releasing hormone antagonist or prostaglandin analogue-induced
luteolysis.

Fraser HM(1), Lunn SF, Harrison DJ, Kerr JB.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Reproductive Biology Unit, Edinburgh, EH3 9ET, United Kingdom.
h.fraser@ed-rbu.mrc.ac.uk

Morphological changes in the corpus luteum following natural and induced
luteolysis in the marmoset were investigated by light and electron microscopy.
Functional corpora lutea were studied in the mid and late luteal phase, naturally
regressed corpora lutea in the early and late follicular phase, and corpora lutea
induced to regress by administration of GnRH antagonist or prostaglandin
F(2alpha) analogue in the midluteal phase. Natural luteolysis was associated with
lutein cell atrophy, condensation of cytoplasmic inclusions and organelles, and
accumulation of lipid. GnRH antagonist treatment resulted in aggregations of
smooth membranes and myelin-like bodies in the cytoplasm of the lutein cells
together with complex aggregations of degenerative cells. After prostaglandin
treatment, the lutein cells contained numerous small and large vesicles; as the
degenerative changes advanced, these vesicles coalesced into alveolar-type
vacuoles, and nuclei involuted. These results show that in the marmoset, natural 
luteolysis and the two luteolytic treatments reveal different forms of luteal
degeneration and cell death, none of which fit the ultrastructural criteria for
apoptosis. More emphasis needs to be placed on understanding these predominant
nonapoptotic forms of cell death in order to elucidate the process of luteolysis 
in the primate.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod61.6.1468 
PMID: 10569991  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

