

3391. J Neurosci Methods. 1999 Sep 15;91(1-2):115-22.

A new video/computer method to measure the amount of overall movement in
experimental animals (two-dimensional object-difference method).

Hashimoto T(1), Izawa Y, Yokoyama H, Kato T, Moriizumi T.

Author information: 
(1)Third Department of Internal Medicine, School of Medicine, Shinshu University,
Asahi, Matsumoto, Japan.

Evaluation of the amount of overall animal movement is important for
investigations of motor control mechanisms in the central nervous system. We
describe a new method to quantify overall free movements of an animal without any
markers using a video camera and a personal computer equipped with a
video-capture board. The operating principle is that the amount of overall
movement of an object can be expressed by the difference in total area occupied
by the object in two consecutive picture frames. The software for this
application operates in real-time. Using this method and with proper setting for 
the cage and recording view, we can estimate three-dimensional movements of
animals. The major advantages are low cost, easy operation and high sensitivity. 
The experimental results indicate that this method can be applied to various
fields of motion analysis.

DOI: 10.1016/s0165-0270(99)00082-5 
PMID: 10522830  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3392. Anat Rec. 1999 Nov 1;256(3):279-99.

Implantation in the marmoset monkey: expansion of the early implantation site.

Enders AC(1), Lopata A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology and Human Anatomy, University of California, Davis,
California, 95616, USA. acenders@ucdavis.edu

This study was initiated to examine the early stages of trophoblast adhesion and 
invasion during implantation in the marmoset. Seven implantation sites were found
in the uteri of four marmosets taken between days 13 and 15 of gestation. Three
implantation sites in two uteri were examined in detail by electron microscopy.
Between days 13 and 15, the marmoset implantation site expanded peripherally by
adding areas where syncytial trophoblast penetrated between uterine luminal
epithelial cells. Such penetrating masses often bridged openings of endometrial
glands, shared junctional complexes with the uterine epithelial cells between
which they are infiltrating, and subsequently reached the residual basal lamina
of the uterine luminal epithelium. Centripetal to the peripheral region was an
intermediate region in which syncytial trophoblast overlay individual clusters of
epithelial cells and rested along the basal lamina. In this region there was some
evidence of fusion of syncytial trophoblast with uterine epithelial cells. In the
central region of the implantation site near the inner cell mass and amnion the
trophoblast formed elaborate lamellipodia in relation to the basal lamina. In one
of the three specimens examined with electron microscopy there were two foci
where trophoblast penetrated through the basal lamina. It was also in the central
region that trophoblast penetrated farthest into the uterine glands. The gland
cells closest to trophoblast were less closely associated and lost their columnar
shape, forming large round cells similar to the epithelial plaque cells of other 
primates. Where two blastocysts implanted on the same side of the uterus a
conjoint membrane was formed which in regions consisted solely of syncytial
trophoblast with two basal surfaces and two basal laminas. The prolonged period
of time when the implantation site expands within the plane of the uterine
epithelium (trophoblastic plate stage) and the peripheral to central sequence in 
extent of development make this primate a particularly useful animal for studies 
of trophoblast adhesion to and penetration of the uterine luminal epithelium.

Copyright 1999 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1097-0185(19991101)256:3<279::AID-AR7>3.0.CO;2-O 
PMID: 10521786  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

