

3393. Am J Reprod Immunol. 1999 Sep;42(3):175-86.

Effect of neonatal treatment with a GnRH antagonist on development of the
cell-mediated immune response in marmosets.

Mann DR(1), Lunn SF, Akinbami MA, Samuel K, Waterfall M, Fraser HM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Morehouse School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA
30310-1495, USA.

PROBLEM: We examined the effect of neonatal treatment with a
gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) antagonist (antide) on the development of
cell-mediated immunity in male marmosets.
METHOD OF STUDY: Neonatal marmoset twins were treated with either vehicle or
antide, and the proliferative response (PR) of lymphoid tissue to mitogens was
assessed during infancy, the peripubertal period, and adulthood.
RESULTS: Basal proliferation of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) from
treated peripubertal twins was elevated above control values, but the PR of the
cells to T and B cell mitogens was subnormal. Conversely, PBMC from treated
infants exhibited an enhanced PR to some of the mitogens employed. In vitro
culturing of thymocytes (control or treated) from the three developmental stages 
with either antide or a GnRH agonist increased basal proliferation, but decreased
the PR to mitogens by 60-80%.
CONCLUSION: Neonatal treatment with antide alters development of, but does not
permanently impair, cell-mediated immunity in the marmoset. GnRH appears to
modulate immune responses throughout development in the primate.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0897.1999.tb00482.x 
PMID: 10517178  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3394. J Neurophysiol. 1999 Oct;82(4):1865-75.

Cutaneous receptive field organization in the ventral posterior nucleus of the
thalamus in the common marmoset.

Wilson P(1), Kitchener PD, Snow PJ.

Author information: 
(1)Cerebral and Sensory Functions Unit, Department of Anatomical Sciences,
University of Queensland, St. Lucia, Brisbane, Queensland 4072, Australia.

The organization of cutaneous receptive fields in the ventroposterior (VP)
thalamus of the common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) was determined from
single-unit recordings, and these data were correlated with the cytochrome
oxidase (CO) histochemistry of the thalamus in the same animals. Under
continuously maintained ketamine anesthesia, the receptive fields of a total of
192 single units were recorded from the right VP thalamus using 2 MOhms glass
electrodes. After the receptive fields were mapped, the brains were reacted for
CO histochemistry on 50-microm coronal frozen sections through the entire VP
thalamus. The majority of units were localized to the CO-reactive regions that
define the medial and lateral divisions of VP (VPm and VPl). Apart from the
expected finding of the face being represented in VPm and the body in VPl,
reconstructing the electrode tracks and unit locations in the histological
sections revealed a general association between discrete regions of CO reactivity
and the representation of specific body regions. Some low-threshold cutaneous
units were apparently localized to VPi (the CO weak regions dorsal, ventral, and 
interdigitating with, the CO regions of VP). These VPi units were clearly part of
the same representational map as the VPl and VPm units. We conclude that the
low-threshold cutaneous receptive fields of the marmoset are organized in a
single continuous representation of the contralateral body surface, and that this
representation can most simply be interpreted as being folded or crumpled into
the three-dimensional space of VP thalamus. The folded nature of the body map in 
VP may be related to the folded nature of VP as revealed by CO histochemistry.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.1999.82.4.1865 
PMID: 10515975  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

