

340. mSystems. 2020 Mar 24;5(2). pii: e00910-19. doi: 10.1128/mSystems.00910-19.

Sex Bias in Gut Microbiome Transmission in Newly Paired Marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus).

Zhu L(#)(1)(2), Clayton JB(#)(3)(2), Suhr Van Haute MJ(2)(4), Yang Q(2)(4),
Hassenstab HR(3), Mustoe AC(3)(2)(5), Knights D(6)(7), Benson AK(2)(4), French
JA(3)(2)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Nebraska at Omaha, Omaha, Nebraska, USA
lzhu@unomaha.edu.
(2)Nebraska Food for Health Center, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, Lincoln,
Nebraska, USA.
(3)Department of Biology, University of Nebraska at Omaha, Omaha, Nebraska, USA.
(4)Department of Food Science and Technology, University of Nebraska-Lincoln,
Lincoln, Nebraska, USA.
(5)Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska at Omaha, Omaha, Nebraska,
USA.
(6)BioTechnology Institute, College of Biological Sciences, University of
Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minnesota, USA.
(7)Department of Computer Science and Engineering, University of Minnesota,
Minneapolis, Minnesota, USA.
(#)Contributed equally

Social behavior can alter the microbiome composition via transmission among
social partners, but there have been few controlled experimental studies of gut
microbiome transmission among social partners in primates. We collected
longitudinal fecal samples from eight unrelated male-female pairs of marmoset
monkeys prior to pairing and for 8 weeks following pairing. We then sequenced 16S
rRNA to characterize the changes in the gut microbiome that resulted from the
pairing. Marmoset pairs had a higher similarity in gut microbiome communities
after pairing than before pairing. We discovered sex differences in the degrees
of change in gut microbiome communities following pairing. Specifically, the gut 
microbiome communities in males exhibited greater dissimilarity from the
prepairing stage (baseline) than the gut microbiome communities in females.
Conversely, females showed a gradual stabilization in the rate of the gut
microbiome community turnover. Importantly, we found that the male fecal samples 
harbored more female-source gut microbes after pairing, especially early in
pairing (paired test, P < 0.05), possibly linked to sex bias in the frequencies
of social behavior. From this controlled study, we report for the first time that
pair-living primates undergo significant changes in gut microbiome during pairing
and that females transmit more microbes to their partners than males do. The
potential biases influencing which microbes are transmitted on the basis of sex
and whether they are due to sex biases in other behavioral or physiological
features need to be widely investigated in other nonhuman primates and humans in 
the future.IMPORTANCE In this controlled study, we collected longitudinal fecal
samples from 16 male and female marmoset monkeys for 2 weeks prior to and for 8
weeks after pairing in male-female dyads. We report for the first time that
marmoset monkeys undergo significant changes to the gut microbiome following
pairing and that these changes are sex-biased; i.e., females transmit more
microbes to their social partners than males do. Marmosets exhibit pair bonding
behavior such as spatial proximity, physical contact, and grooming, and sex
biases in these behavioral patterns may contribute to the observed sex bias in
social transmission of gut microbiomes.

Copyright © 2020 Zhu et al.

DOI: 10.1128/mSystems.00910-19 
PMCID: PMC7093826
PMID: 32209720 


341. Anat Histol Embryol. 2020 Jul;49(4):511-520. doi: 10.1111/ahe.12555. Epub 2020
Mar 21.

Anatomical parameters of the body and the digestive tract of Callithrix sp.
marmosets under the influence of seasonality.

Guimarães-Lopes VP(1), Gomes MRVS(1), Kagueyama M(1), Faria RCV(1), Ribeiro Filho
OP(1), de Melo FR(1), Sartori SSR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Biologia Animal, Universidade Federal de Viçosa, Viçosa,
Brazil.

Due to the ecological importance and given the scarcity of studies on the
digestive morphology of primates, anatomical aspects of the body and digestive
tract, as well as food content were analysed for marmosets Callithrix sp.
(hybrids of exotic species) captured in forest fragments in Minas Gerais -
Brazil, during the dry and rainy seasons, considering that seasonal variations
affect the availability of food and quality of diet. Data such as body weight and
length, and thoracic and abdominal perimeters were analysed, and no significant
difference was found between dry and rainy seasons. In relation to the digestive 
tract, length, weight and diameter of the oesophagus, stomach, small intestine
and large intestine were measured, in addition to the isolated caecum. There was 
a significant difference in the diameter of the ascending colon, which was larger
in the animals in the dry season than in the rainy season. The difference found
may be related to diet, and through analysis of the gastric and caecal contents, 
it was observed that gum was the main food item for the dry season marmosets,
while in the rainy season the animals consumed mainly arthropods. Thus, the
characteristic observed in the digestive tract of dry season marmosets is a
reflection of an adaptive response to gum intake, since this food item is of low 
digestibility, necessitating that the food content be retained for a long time in
this segment of the large intestine, helping the process of microbial
fermentation and better energy utilization for these animals.

© 2020 Blackwell Verlag GmbH.

DOI: 10.1111/ahe.12555 
PMID: 32198897  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

