

3402. J Psychopharmacol. 1999;13(2):128-35.

The effects of acutely administered low dose sarin on cognitive behaviour and the
electroencephalogram in the common marmoset.

Pearce PC(1), Crofts HS, Muggleton NG, Ridout D, Scott EA.

Author information: 
(1)Biomedical Sciences Department, CBD Porton Down, Salisbury, Wiltshire, UK.
cbmdc@dera.gov.uk

Comment in
    J Psychopharmacol. 2000 Mar;14(1):87-8.

Previous studies have suggested that administration of a clinically sign-free
dose of sarin to non-human primates gives rise to subtle changes in brain
electrical activity as measured by electroencephalography (EEG) several months
following exposure. The functional significances of such changes are unclear. The
present study monitored EEG by using implantable radiotelemetry, and also
assessed the performance of complex behavioural tasks, in non-human primates for 
up to 15 months following exposure to a low dose of sarin. Baselines of EEG and
behaviour were shown to be stable over several months in control animals. The
doses of sarin administered caused erythrocyte cholinesterase inhibitions of
36.4% to 67.1%. Overall, no significant changes in EEG patterns were observed
although there were increases in beta 2 amplitude which approached significance
(p=0.07). No deleterious effects on performance were seen on the touchscreen
mediated discrimination tasks presented from the Cambridge Neuropsychological
Test Automated Battery (CANTAB). This study illustrates the validity of the
approach employed and makes an important contribution to the investigation of the
long-term effects of organophosphorous compounds.

DOI: 10.1177/026988119901300203 
PMID: 10475717  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3403. Asia Pac J Clin Nutr. 1999 Sep;8(3):226-30.

The role of omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acid-enriched diets in the prevention
of ventricular fibrillation.

Charnock JS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Charnock and Associates, Coromandel House, Carrickalinga, South Australia,
Australia.

In a number of epidemiological surveys and in two recent intervention trials in
cardiac patients, diets rich in marine omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids
(PUFA), which include both eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid
(DHA), have been found to be beneficial in reducing the susceptibility of
developing serious ventricular fibrillation (VF) or malignant cardiac dysrhythmia
and mortality from sudden cardiac death (SCD). In addition to this information
from human studies, there is strong supporting evidence from laboratory
experiments utilizing the small non-human primate marmoset monkey (Callithrix
jacchus). For example, a diet enriched with tuna fish oil that is high in both
DHA and EPA has been found to increase the electrical threshold current necessary
for inducing VF and to reduce mortality to zero in marmoset monkeys with
experimentally induced ischaemic cardiac dysrhythmia (ICH). From these and
earlier studies in other animals there is also some evidence which suggests that 
it may be the DHA rather than the EPA component of fish oils which is the
biologically active fatty acid responsible for the reduction in susceptibility of
developing VF and ICH. If this possibility could be determined with confidence,
it would greatly assist in the design of future intervention trials, which are
required in order to determine both the nature and amount of dietary omega-3 PUFA
that is necessary to achieve these beneficial effects. Any simple dietary
strategy that could lead to a substantial decrease in VF and mortality from SCD
would be of great medical, social and economic benefit.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1440-6047.1999.00115.x 
PMID: 24394167 

