

3403. Asia Pac J Clin Nutr. 1999 Sep;8(3):226-30.

The role of omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acid-enriched diets in the prevention
of ventricular fibrillation.

Charnock JS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Charnock and Associates, Coromandel House, Carrickalinga, South Australia,
Australia.

In a number of epidemiological surveys and in two recent intervention trials in
cardiac patients, diets rich in marine omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids
(PUFA), which include both eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid
(DHA), have been found to be beneficial in reducing the susceptibility of
developing serious ventricular fibrillation (VF) or malignant cardiac dysrhythmia
and mortality from sudden cardiac death (SCD). In addition to this information
from human studies, there is strong supporting evidence from laboratory
experiments utilizing the small non-human primate marmoset monkey (Callithrix
jacchus). For example, a diet enriched with tuna fish oil that is high in both
DHA and EPA has been found to increase the electrical threshold current necessary
for inducing VF and to reduce mortality to zero in marmoset monkeys with
experimentally induced ischaemic cardiac dysrhythmia (ICH). From these and
earlier studies in other animals there is also some evidence which suggests that 
it may be the DHA rather than the EPA component of fish oils which is the
biologically active fatty acid responsible for the reduction in susceptibility of
developing VF and ICH. If this possibility could be determined with confidence,
it would greatly assist in the design of future intervention trials, which are
required in order to determine both the nature and amount of dietary omega-3 PUFA
that is necessary to achieve these beneficial effects. Any simple dietary
strategy that could lead to a substantial decrease in VF and mortality from SCD
would be of great medical, social and economic benefit.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1440-6047.1999.00115.x 
PMID: 24394167 


3404. Am J Primatol. 1999 Oct;49(2):165-81.

Context and sex differences exist in the acoustic structure of phee calls by
newly-paired common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Norcross JL(1), Newman JD, Cofrancesco LM.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Comparative Ethology, NICHD, NIH, Poolesville, Maryland 20837,
USA.

Captive common marmosets of all ages robustly produce a "separation" phee call
during brief separations from their group. In contrast, a second structural
variant, which may function as an intergroup call, is produced in the home cage
primarily by the reproductive adults. A previous study found that postpubertal
but nonreproductive offspring rarely produce phee calls when in the home cage
with the natal group, yet these marmosets call frequently after pairing with an
opposite-sex partner. The sudden increase in home cage phee calls may indicate
the rapid onset of intergroup calling. Alternatively, marmosets may be producing 
the separation phee variant as a result of separation from the natal group. The
present study investigated whether phee calls produced by recently paired
individuals in the home cage were structurally distinguishable from their calls
recorded in a separation paradigm. We also tested whether sex differences, known 
to exist in the calls of mature adults, could be found in calls recorded from
younger, nonreproductive animals separated from their natal groups. We analyzed
18 acoustic parameters of phee calls produced in the home cage after pairing and 
of calls produced during separation both from the natal group and from a new
mate. Discriminant function analyses found that home cage calls were clearly
discriminable from separation calls (average 91.7% correctly classified),
indicating that the rapid increase in home cage phee call production shortly
after pairing is not a consequence of separation from the family group.
Postpubertal marmosets appear to show a rapid behavioral adjustment to separation
from their natal groups. Additionally, sex was clearly discriminable in calls
recorded both before and after pairing (average 86.8% correctly classified). Like
calls recorded from well-established paired marmosets, phee calls produced by
recently paired, postpubertal marmosets are discriminable by context and sex.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1098-2345(199910)49:2<165::AID-AJP7>3.0.CO;2-S 
PMID: 10466575  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

