

3409. Nephrol Dial Transplant. 1999 Aug;14(8):1875-80.

IgA-gliadin antibodies, IgA-containing circulating immune complexes, and IgA
glomerular deposits in wasting marmoset syndrome.

Schroeder C(1), Osman AA, Roggenbuck D, Mothes T.

Author information: 
(1)German Primate Centre, Göttingen.

BACKGROUND: Marmosets in captivity are highly susceptible to wasting marmoset
syndrome (WMS), the aetiology of which is still not fully determined.
METHODS: The level of IgA-gliadin antibodies (IgA-AGA), of IgA-containing
circulating immune complexes (IgA-CIC), and the degree of glomerular IgA deposits
were compared between marmosets suffering from WMS and animals not affected by
the disorder.
RESULTS: Both IgA-AGA and IgA-CIC were demonstrable in all groups of monkeys
investigated. IgA-AGA and IgA-CIC were significantly higher in monkeys with WMS
than in non-affected animals. There was a significant correlation between the
glomerular IgA-deposition and titre of IgA-AGA. The group of marmosets strongly
positive for glomerular IgA deposits comprised significantly more animals
suffering from WMS than the group without deposits. In the diet of the animals a 
considerable amount of gliadin-like cereal proteins was assayed.
CONCLUSIONS: There are several parallels between the human disorders (coeliac
disease and IgA-nephropathy/Berger's disease) and the changes observed in WMS. It
should be further investigated if WMS in marmosets is a suitable animal model for
both human diseases.

DOI: 10.1093/ndt/14.8.1875 
PMID: 10462265  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3410. Neurosci Lett. 1999 Aug 6;270(3):141-4.

Unipolar brush cells in the cochlear nuclei of a primate (Callithrix jacchus).

Spatz WB(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oto-Rhino-Laryngology, University of Freiburg, Germany.
spatz@hno1.ukl.uni-freiburg.de

Unipolar brush cells (UBCs) have been recognized in the cerebella of many species
including primates. They have also been identified in the cochlear nuclei (CN) of
many mammals, however, not in any primate. Our immunohistochemical study in the
marmoset demonstrates the presence of abundant calretinin immunoreactive (CR-ir) 
UBCs in the cerebellum, as in other mammals. In the marmoset CN, in contrast,
CR-ir UBCs could hardly be identified. The reverse pattern was evident in
sections immunostained for a metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR2/3-IR):
beautifully stained UBCs were present in the CN, but the stained cerebellar
structures were difficult to identify as UBCs. The present findings indicate that
UBCs are present in the CN of primates, as in other mammals, but that cerebellar 
and CN UBCs might differ in their molecular equipment in primates.

DOI: 10.1016/s0304-3940(99)00493-0 
PMID: 10462114  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

