

3411. Biol Reprod. 1999 Sep;61(3):582-9.

Magnetic cell sorting is a fast and effective method of enriching viable
spermatogonia from Djungarian hamster, mouse, and marmoset monkey testes.

von Schönfeldt V(1), Krishnamurthy H, Foppiani L, Schlatt S.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Reproductive Medicine of the University Münster, 48149 Münster,
Germany.

Germ cell transplantation, which offers promising new approaches for research and
clinical applications, has focused interest on spermatogonia. This paper
describes a procedure that permits the isolation of large quantities of viable
spermatogonia. The immunomagnetic isolation procedure was applied to testicular
cell suspensions from photoinhibited and photostimulated Djungarian hamsters,
mice, and marmoset monkeys. The cells were incubated with a polyclonal rabbit
anti-c-kit IgG, binding of which was characterized by immunohistochemical
staining. For magnetic labeling, a secondary anti-rabbit IgG conjugated to
ferromagnetic microbeads was used. Separation columns allowed the retention of
magnetically labeled cells within the matrix. The magnetic fractions were eluted 
after removal of the column from the magnetic field. All fractions were analyzed 
for cellular morphology and by flow cytometry. The final enrichment of
c-kit-positive cells in the magnetic fraction using fully active testes was in
the range of 25-55% with a viability rate of 80-90%. The magnetic fractions of
all three species were characterized by high numbers of diploid cells.
Cytological analysis revealed a strong enrichment of spermatogonia. No haploid
cells were retained in the magnetic fraction. In comparison to conventional
procedures, magnetic cell separation is an efficient and fast approach for
isolation of spermatogonia.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod61.3.582 
PMID: 10456832  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3412. Learn Mem. 1998 Jul-Aug;5(3):193-203.

Food avoidance learning in squirrel monkeys and common marmosets.

Laska M(1), Metzker K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Psychology, University of Munich Medical School,
Germany.

Using a conditioned food avoidance learning paradigm, six squirrel monkeys
(Saimiri sciureus) and six common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) were tested for 
their ability to (1) reliably form associations between visual or olfactory cues 
of a potential food and its palatability and (2) remember such associations over 
prolonged periods of time. We found (1) that at the group level both species
showed one-trial learning with the visual cues color and shape, whereas only the 
marmosets were able to do so with the olfactory cue, (2) that all individuals
from both species learned to reliably avoid the unpalatable food items within 10 
trials, (3) a tendency in both species for quicker acquisition of the association
with the visual cues compared with the olfactory cue, (4) a tendency for quicker 
acquisition and higher reliability of the aversion by the marmosets compared with
the squirrel monkeys, and (5) that all individuals from both species were able to
reliably remember the significance of the visual cues, color and shape, even
after 4 months, whereas only the marmosets showed retention of the significance
of the olfactory cues for up to 4 weeks. Furthermore, the results suggest that in
both species tested, illness is not a necessary prerequisite for food avoidance
learning but that the presumably innate rejection responses toward highly
concentrated but nontoxic bitter and sour tastants are sufficient to induce
robust learning and retention.


PMCID: PMC313805
PMID: 10454364  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

