

3412. Learn Mem. 1998 Jul-Aug;5(3):193-203.

Food avoidance learning in squirrel monkeys and common marmosets.

Laska M(1), Metzker K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Psychology, University of Munich Medical School,
Germany.

Using a conditioned food avoidance learning paradigm, six squirrel monkeys
(Saimiri sciureus) and six common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) were tested for 
their ability to (1) reliably form associations between visual or olfactory cues 
of a potential food and its palatability and (2) remember such associations over 
prolonged periods of time. We found (1) that at the group level both species
showed one-trial learning with the visual cues color and shape, whereas only the 
marmosets were able to do so with the olfactory cue, (2) that all individuals
from both species learned to reliably avoid the unpalatable food items within 10 
trials, (3) a tendency in both species for quicker acquisition of the association
with the visual cues compared with the olfactory cue, (4) a tendency for quicker 
acquisition and higher reliability of the aversion by the marmosets compared with
the squirrel monkeys, and (5) that all individuals from both species were able to
reliably remember the significance of the visual cues, color and shape, even
after 4 months, whereas only the marmosets showed retention of the significance
of the olfactory cues for up to 4 weeks. Furthermore, the results suggest that in
both species tested, illness is not a necessary prerequisite for food avoidance
learning but that the presumably innate rejection responses toward highly
concentrated but nontoxic bitter and sour tastants are sufficient to induce
robust learning and retention.


PMCID: PMC313805
PMID: 10454364  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3413. AJNR Am J Neuroradiol. 1999 Jun-Jul;20(6):965-76.

Serial MR imaging of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis induced by human
white matter or by chimeric myelin-basic and proteolipid protein in the common
marmoset.

Jordan EK(1), McFarland HI, Lewis BK, Tresser N, Gates MA, Johnson M, Lenardo M, 
Matis LA, McFarland HF, Frank JA.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Diagnostic Radiology Research, CC, NIH, Bethesda, Maryland
20892-1074, USA.

Comment in
    AJNR Am J Neuroradiol. 1999 Jun-Jul;20(6):955-7.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) in the
marmoset was monitored by serial MR imaging to determine correlates to the
natural-history MR studies in multiple sclerosis (MS). The relationships of
MR-revealed lesions to clinical status and histopathologic findings were also
explored.
METHODS: We induced EAE by subcutaneous inoculation in two marmosets by human
white matter (HWM) and in seven marmosets by MP4 (a chimeric recombinant fusion
protein of myelin-basic and proteolipid protein) in adjuvant along with
intravenous inactivated pertussis vaccine to facilitate the disease process. The 
HWM-inoculated animals were induced with Freund's adjuvant as the established
model of marmoset EAE. The MP4-inoculated animals were induced with either
Freund's incomplete adjuvant or TiterMax as part of a preclinical treatment
trial. MR imaging was performed at 1.5 T at baseline, and repeated at 1- to
2-week intervals for a period of up to 16 weeks in six EAE-induced marmosets, and
intermittently for up to 70 weeks in three EAE-induced and two control marmosets.
Proton density- (PD-) and T2-weighted, pre- and postgadopentetate dimeglumine
enhancement, T1-weighted, and magnetization transfer (MT) images were obtained.
The brains were prepared for histologic evaluation of lesion distribution and
counts, characterization of lesions as demyelinating or inflammatory, and
histopathologic scoring. The clinical, MR, and pathologic scoring were done on
grading systems, and correlated for evaluation.
RESULTS: White matter (WM) changes after EAE induction were observed first at 9
days in the HWM-induced animals and at 2.5 weeks in the MP4-induced animals, with
subsequent week-to-week fluctuations on PD- and T2-weighted images.
Contrast-enhancing lesions were not observed in all animals. MR-revealed WM
lesions correlated to histopathologic analysis of EAE lesions, measuring from 0.5
mm to 1.5 mm. The lesion count and extent of demyelination was greater in the
HWM-induced animals than in the MP4-induced animals. Some MR-revealed lesions
correlated directly to clinical symptoms, but the majority of lesions were
clinically silent.
CONCLUSION: On MR images, lesions in the EAE marmoset model were confined to the 
WM, and their development, resolution, distribution, and enhancing
characteristics fluctuated over the duration of the study. The dynamic
presentation of MR-revealed lesions confirms the parallels between EAE in the
marmoset and relapsing-remitting MS. Clinical symptoms alone were not
representative of ongoing pathologic brain lesions. Therefore, serial MR imaging 
serves as a very important adjunct to clinical and histologic surveillance of the
development of new and the persistence of existing brain lesions in this animal
model of MS.


PMCID: PMC7056255
PMID: 10445431  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

