

3414. AJNR Am J Neuroradiol. 1999 Jun-Jul;20(6):955-7.

MR imaging investigations in a non-human primate model of multiple sclerosis.

Genain CP.

Comment on
    AJNR Am J Neuroradiol. 1999 Jun-Jul;20(6):965-76.


PMCID: PMC7056239
PMID: 10445427  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3415. Sci Prog. 1999;82 ( Pt 1):69-88.

Methylation of inorganic arsenic in different mammalian species and population
groups.

Vahter M.

Thousands of people in different parts of the world are exposed to arsenic via
drinking water or contaminated soil or food. The high general toxic of arsenic
has been known for centuries, and research during the last decades has shown that
arsenic is a potent human carcinogen. However, most experimental cancer studies
have failed to demonstrate carcinogenicity in experimental animals, indicating
marked variation in sensitivity towards arsenic toxicity between species. It has 
also been suggested that there is a variation in susceptibility among human
individuals. One reason for such variability in toxic response may be variation
in metabolism. Inorganic arsenic is methylated in humans as well as animals and
micro-organisms, but there are considerable differences between species and
individuals. In many, but not all, mammalian species, inorganic arsenic is
methylated to methylarsonic acid (MMA) and dimethylarsinic acid (DMA), which are 
more rapidly excreted in urine than is the inorganic arsenic, especially the
trivalent form (AsIII, arsenite) which is highly reactive with tissue components.
Absorbed arsenate (AsV) is reduced to trivalent arsenic (AsIII) before the methyl
groups are attached. It has been estimated that as much as 50-70% of absorbed AsV
is rapidly reduced to AsIII, a reaction which seems to be common for most
species. In most experimental animal species, DMA is the main metabolite excreted
in urine. Compared to human subjects, very little MMA is produced. However, the
rate of methylation varies considerably between species, and several species,
e.g. the marmoset monkey and the chimpanzee have been shown not to methylate
inorganic arsenic at all. In addition, the marmoset monkey accumulates arsenic in
the liver. The rat, on the other hand, has an efficient methylation of arsenic
but the formed DMA is to a large extent accumulated in the red blood cells. As a 
result, the rat shows a low rate of excretion of arsenic. In both human subjects 
and rodents exposed to DMA, about 5% of the dose is excreted in the urine as
trimethylarsine oxide. It is obvious from studies on human volunteers exposed to 
specified doses of inorganic arsenic that the rate of excretion increases with
the methylation efficiency, and there are large inter-individual variations in
the methylation of arsenic. Recent studies on people exposed to arsenic via
drinking water in northern Argentina have shown unusually low urinary excretion
of MMA. Furthermore, children had a lower degree of methylation of arsenic than
adults. Some studies indicate a lower degree of arsenic methylation in men than
in women, especially during pregnancy. Whether the observed differences in
methylation of arsenic are associated with variations in the susceptibility of
arsenic remains to be investigated.

DOI: 10.1177/003685049908200104 
PMID: 10445007  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

