

3419. J Med Primatol. 1999 Apr;28(2):73-83.

Unrearable litters and prenatal reduction of litter size in the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus).

Windle CP(1), Baker HF, Ridley RM, Oerke AK, Martin RD.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Comparative Cognition Team, Department of Experimental Psychology,
Cambridge, UK.

It is widely believed that common marmosets (Callithrx jacchus) typically give
birth to twins under natural conditions. In captivity, however, births of
triplets or even larger litters are common, although parents rarely succeed in
rearing more than two offspring. The traditional interpretation is that captive
conditions, notably the ready availability of food, have led to increased
reproductive output, perhaps involving a higher ovulation rate. The present paper
provides evidence, combined from ultrasound examinations between ovulation and
birth and hysterotomies conducted during the late embryonic and early fetal
phase, that the litter size can be progressively reduced during pregnancy without
spontaneous abortion. There is an unusually long lag phase prior to the onset of 
embryonic growth in common marmosets; the fetal stage does not begin until day 80
of the 144-day pregnancy. Reduction in litter size occurs during embryonic stages
(up to day 80), and continues into the fetal stages. These results indicate that 
the common marmoset is adapted for flexible modification of litter size between
ovulation and birth. The high incidence of triplet births in captive colonies may
therefore be an expression of an adapted natural developmental process under
artificial circumstances.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0684.1999.tb00254.x 
PMID: 10431697  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3420. Electrophoresis. 1999 Jun;20(7):1527-32.

Simultaneous analysis of endogenous neurotransmitters and neuropeptides in brain 
tissue using capillary electrophoresis--microelectrospray-tandem mass
spectrometry.

Jäverfalk-Hoyes EM(1), Bondesson U, Westerlund D, Andrén PE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, National Veterinary Institute, Uppsala, Sweden.

Capillary electrophoresis was combined with highly sensitive
microelectrospray-tandem mass spectrometry to simultaneously detect classical
small molecule neurotransmitters as well as neuropeptides from discrete regions
of the marmoset brain. A mixture of four classical neurotransmitters (glutamate, 
gamma-aminobutyric acid, acetylcholine, dopamine) and four neuropeptides
(neurotensin, methionine-enkephalin, leucine-enkephalin and substance P 1-7) was 
studied to optimize the capillary electrophoresis conditions for separation,
injection volume, and analysis time. Gamma-aminopropyltriethoxysilane-coated
capillaries and acetic acid electrolytes were used to avoid interactions between 
the sample and the capillary surface and to obtain a high anodic electroosmotic
flow, which resulted in a short analysis time. Detection was performed using
tandem mass spectrometry in the selected reaction monitoring mode using a triple 
quadrupole mass spectrometer. Samples were dissolved in ammonium acetate to
achieve a transient-isotachophoretic concentration step at the beginning of the
separation and to make it possible to inject larger sample volumes, up to 140 nL.
Small amounts of tissue from specific regions of the marmoset monkey brain were
pretreated using solid-phase extraction as a clean-up and concentrating step. In 
the striatum we could detect endogenous glutamate, gamma-aminobutyric acid
(GABA), acetylcholine and dopamine, as well as the neuropeptides
methionine-enkephalin and substance P 1-7 in the same analysis, using only 58 mm3
of brain tissue.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1522-2683(19990601)20:7<1527::AID-ELPS1527>3.0.CO;2-9 
PMID: 10424476  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

