

3420. Electrophoresis. 1999 Jun;20(7):1527-32.

Simultaneous analysis of endogenous neurotransmitters and neuropeptides in brain 
tissue using capillary electrophoresis--microelectrospray-tandem mass
spectrometry.

Jäverfalk-Hoyes EM(1), Bondesson U, Westerlund D, Andrén PE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, National Veterinary Institute, Uppsala, Sweden.

Capillary electrophoresis was combined with highly sensitive
microelectrospray-tandem mass spectrometry to simultaneously detect classical
small molecule neurotransmitters as well as neuropeptides from discrete regions
of the marmoset brain. A mixture of four classical neurotransmitters (glutamate, 
gamma-aminobutyric acid, acetylcholine, dopamine) and four neuropeptides
(neurotensin, methionine-enkephalin, leucine-enkephalin and substance P 1-7) was 
studied to optimize the capillary electrophoresis conditions for separation,
injection volume, and analysis time. Gamma-aminopropyltriethoxysilane-coated
capillaries and acetic acid electrolytes were used to avoid interactions between 
the sample and the capillary surface and to obtain a high anodic electroosmotic
flow, which resulted in a short analysis time. Detection was performed using
tandem mass spectrometry in the selected reaction monitoring mode using a triple 
quadrupole mass spectrometer. Samples were dissolved in ammonium acetate to
achieve a transient-isotachophoretic concentration step at the beginning of the
separation and to make it possible to inject larger sample volumes, up to 140 nL.
Small amounts of tissue from specific regions of the marmoset monkey brain were
pretreated using solid-phase extraction as a clean-up and concentrating step. In 
the striatum we could detect endogenous glutamate, gamma-aminobutyric acid
(GABA), acetylcholine and dopamine, as well as the neuropeptides
methionine-enkephalin and substance P 1-7 in the same analysis, using only 58 mm3
of brain tissue.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1522-2683(19990601)20:7<1527::AID-ELPS1527>3.0.CO;2-9 
PMID: 10424476  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3421. Lab Invest. 1999 Jul;79(7):823-35.

Cyno-EBV (EBV-related herpesvirus from cynomolgus macaques) induces rabbit
malignant lymphomas and their tumor cell lines frequently show specific
chromosomal abnormalities.

Hayashi K(1), Chen HL, Yanai H, Koirala TR, Ohara N, Teramoto N, Oka T, Yoshino
T, Takahashi K, Miyamoto K, Fujimoto K, Yoshikawa Y, Akagi T.

Author information: 
(1)Second Department of Pathology, Okayama University Medical School,
Okayama-city, Japan. kazuhaya@med.okayama-u.ac.jp

Malignant lymphoma (ML) induction in rabbits by Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-related 
herpesvirus of cynomolgus (Cyno-EBV) is reported. Twenty-seven of 30 (90%)
rabbits inoculated intravenously with Cyno-EBV-producing simian (cynomolgus)
lymphocyte cell line (Ts-B6) cells developed ML between 45 and 115 days after
inoculation. The peroral inoculation of Ts-B6 cells induced ML in only 2 of 10
(20%) rabbits (75 to 85 days). Five of 6 (83%) rabbits injected with cell-free
pellets from Ts-B6 cultures also developed ML (27 to 122 days). Antibody response
to the viral capsid antigen of EBV was also detected in sera from rabbits
inoculated with Ts-B6. ML of the large cell or mixed type infiltrated diffusely
in many organs, frequently involving the spleen, liver, kidneys, heart, and less 
frequently the lungs, lymph nodes, brain, eyes, gastrointestinal tract, thymus,
and bone marrow. A chromosomal analysis of five lymphoma cell lines established
from tumor-bearing rabbits revealed the rabbit karyotype. Three of these cell
lines showed the chromosomal abnormalities with 12q- or t (7p+:12q-). EBV-encoded
small RNA-1 and EBV-associated nuclear antigen 1 were expressed in Ts-B6 cells,
the tumor tissues, and all rabbit cell lines by in situ hybridization and by
immunofluorescence tests, respectively. EBV DNA was also detected in Ts-B6 cells 
and rabbit lymphoma cell lines by polymerase chain reaction and Southern blot
analysis. The Southern blots of EBV termini revealed oligoclonal bands in the
Cyno-EBV-induced rabbit lymphomas. No lymphoma was induced by the inoculation of 
B95-8 (EBV-producing cells) or peripheral leukocytes from normal cynomolgus
(controls). These data suggest that the high rate of lymphoma induction in
rabbits may be caused not by human EBV (B95-8) but by Cyno-EBV from Ts-B6 cells. 
A sequence analysis of the IR1 (BamHIW) region of Cyno-EBV revealed that this
region is quite similar to that of herpesvirus Macaca fascicularis 1, which is a 
causative agent for a monkey model of AIDS-related lymphomas. The present rabbit 
model of lymphoma with specific chromosomal abnormalities is very useful to
clarify the role of EBV in human EBV-associated lymphoma and provides a means for
studying prophylactic and therapeutic regimens.


PMID: 10418823  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

