

3421. Lab Invest. 1999 Jul;79(7):823-35.

Cyno-EBV (EBV-related herpesvirus from cynomolgus macaques) induces rabbit
malignant lymphomas and their tumor cell lines frequently show specific
chromosomal abnormalities.

Hayashi K(1), Chen HL, Yanai H, Koirala TR, Ohara N, Teramoto N, Oka T, Yoshino
T, Takahashi K, Miyamoto K, Fujimoto K, Yoshikawa Y, Akagi T.

Author information: 
(1)Second Department of Pathology, Okayama University Medical School,
Okayama-city, Japan. kazuhaya@med.okayama-u.ac.jp

Malignant lymphoma (ML) induction in rabbits by Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-related 
herpesvirus of cynomolgus (Cyno-EBV) is reported. Twenty-seven of 30 (90%)
rabbits inoculated intravenously with Cyno-EBV-producing simian (cynomolgus)
lymphocyte cell line (Ts-B6) cells developed ML between 45 and 115 days after
inoculation. The peroral inoculation of Ts-B6 cells induced ML in only 2 of 10
(20%) rabbits (75 to 85 days). Five of 6 (83%) rabbits injected with cell-free
pellets from Ts-B6 cultures also developed ML (27 to 122 days). Antibody response
to the viral capsid antigen of EBV was also detected in sera from rabbits
inoculated with Ts-B6. ML of the large cell or mixed type infiltrated diffusely
in many organs, frequently involving the spleen, liver, kidneys, heart, and less 
frequently the lungs, lymph nodes, brain, eyes, gastrointestinal tract, thymus,
and bone marrow. A chromosomal analysis of five lymphoma cell lines established
from tumor-bearing rabbits revealed the rabbit karyotype. Three of these cell
lines showed the chromosomal abnormalities with 12q- or t (7p+:12q-). EBV-encoded
small RNA-1 and EBV-associated nuclear antigen 1 were expressed in Ts-B6 cells,
the tumor tissues, and all rabbit cell lines by in situ hybridization and by
immunofluorescence tests, respectively. EBV DNA was also detected in Ts-B6 cells 
and rabbit lymphoma cell lines by polymerase chain reaction and Southern blot
analysis. The Southern blots of EBV termini revealed oligoclonal bands in the
Cyno-EBV-induced rabbit lymphomas. No lymphoma was induced by the inoculation of 
B95-8 (EBV-producing cells) or peripheral leukocytes from normal cynomolgus
(controls). These data suggest that the high rate of lymphoma induction in
rabbits may be caused not by human EBV (B95-8) but by Cyno-EBV from Ts-B6 cells. 
A sequence analysis of the IR1 (BamHIW) region of Cyno-EBV revealed that this
region is quite similar to that of herpesvirus Macaca fascicularis 1, which is a 
causative agent for a monkey model of AIDS-related lymphomas. The present rabbit 
model of lymphoma with specific chromosomal abnormalities is very useful to
clarify the role of EBV in human EBV-associated lymphoma and provides a means for
studying prophylactic and therapeutic regimens.


PMID: 10418823  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3422. Brain Res. 1999 Jul 31;836(1-2):120-38.

Severe learning impairment caused by combined immunotoxic lesion of the
cholinergic projections to the cortex and hippocampus in monkeys.

Ridley RM(1), Pugh P, Maclean CJ, Baker HF.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Comparative Cognition Team, Department of Experimental Psychology, Downing
Street, Cambridge CB2 3EB, UK.

Monkeys with immunotoxic lesions of both the basal nucleus of Meynert and the
vertical limb of the diagonal band of Broca (NBM+VDB) lost cholinergic
innervation throughout the cortex and hippocampus. They were impaired at learning
discriminations between objects differing in either few, or many, attributes and 
at learning visuospatial conditional discriminations. Monkeys with immunotoxic
lesions of the NBM lost cholinergic innervation of the neocortex only. Initially,
they were unable to learn a simple visual discrimination where the stimuli
differed in a limited number of attributes but they were unimpaired at learning
discriminations between objects that differed in more attributes. They were
mildly impaired at learning a visuospatial conditional task. The impairment
exhibited by monkeys with lesions of the NBM alone ameliorated with time but that
following NBM+VDB lesions did not. Previous experiments have shown that monkeys
with immunotoxic lesions of the VDB alone are impaired at learning visuospatial
conditional discriminations but are unimpaired at learning simple visual
discriminations. When monkeys with NBM lesions were given excitotoxic lesions of 
the CA1 field of the hippocampus the learning impairment on discriminations
between objects which differed in few attributes was reinstated. Pretreatment
with a cholinergic agonist improved learning ability on visual discrimination
learning in all monkeys but this improvement was significantly greater in monkeys
with lesions of the NBM. On conditional discrimination learning, which is
particularly sensitive to hippocampal damage, pilocarpine produced a significant 
improvement in monkeys with NBM+VDB lesions (where the hippocampal dysfunction
was cholinergic) but not in monkeys with NBM+CA1 lesions (where the hippocampal
damage was structural).

Copyright 1999 Elsevier Science B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/s0006-8993(99)01641-8 
PMID: 10415411  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

