

3431. Exp Anim. 1999 Apr;48(2):107-14.

Leukocyte differential analysis in multiple laboratory species by a laser
multi-angle polarized light scattering separation method.

Suzuki S(1), Eguchi N.

Author information: 
(1)Central Institute for Experimental Animals, Kawasaki-Shi, Japan.

Leukocyte differential analysis was performed in various species, particularly
laboratory animals, by the laser multi-angle polarized light scattering
separation method. Venous blood specimens were drawn from the following subjects:
healthy adult men and women ("humans"); cynomolgus monkeys ("monkeys"); common
marmosets ("marmosets"); beagle dogs ("dogs"); miniature potbelly pigs ("swine");
Japanese white rabbits ("rabbits"); Hartley guinea pigs ("guinea pigs"); and
Sprague-Dawley rats ("rats"). 90 degrees/10 degrees scatter plot: Basophils and
mononuclear-polymorphonuclear cells were separated in all subjects, but
individual 10 degrees and 90 degrees scatter plots overlapped in dogs and guinea 
pigs, respectively. 90 degrees depolarized /90 degrees scatter plot: Neutrophils 
and eosinophils were clearly separated in human, monkey, guinea pig, swine and
rat subjects. The eosinophil cluster was not clearly plotted in marmoset, dog, or
rabbit. 0 degree/10 degrees scatter plot: Regarding this plot for monocytes and
lymphocytes, cells were plotted in the following order in all subjects:
lymphocytes < basophils < or = monocytes in the 0 degree (size) scatter; and
lymphocytes [symbol: see text] monocytes < or = basophils in the 10 degrees
(complexity) scatter. Compared to other species, the rat scatter showed a
tendency to overlapping plots in both the 0 degree and 10 degrees scatters in the
monocyte and lymphocyte clusters. In both dog and guinea pig, the monocyte and
neutrophil plots overlapped in the 0 degree and 10 degrees scatters. Basobox: In 
the human and rabbit subjects, the basophil cluster was plotted within the
established basobox, but no clear cell cluster was plotted in the other subjects.
As a result of comparing the percentage values for leukocytes in various species 
obtained by using the CD3500 apparatus versus the corresponding values obtained
manually, good correspondence was found in the monkey, and eosinophils in the
marmoset were lower with CD3500 than manually. In the rabbit, the mean measured
value for basophils matched in the manual and CD3500 findings. In the guinea pig,
the CD3500 values were lower than the manual values for lymphocytes, but higher
for monocytes and neutrophils. The above findings suggest that the laser
multi-angle polarized light scattering separation method is indeed capable of
analyzing leukocytes from various species based on cell size and cell complexity,
i.e., the presence or absence of nuclei, granules and cell enclosures.

DOI: 10.1538/expanim.48.107 
PMID: 10374072  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3432. J Med Primatol. 1999 Feb;28(1):36-47.

Efficacy and effects of short- and medium-term contraception in the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) using melengestrol acetate implants.

Möhle U(1), Heistermann M, Einspanier A, Hodges JK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Reproductive Biology, German Primate Centre, Göttingen.
moehle@www.dpz.gwdg.de

This study examines the effect of melengestrol acetate (MGA) implants on
reproductive function and various biochemical parameters, ovarian activity, and
uterine morphology in ten female common marmosets implanted for either 6-8 or
19-21 months. Measures of body weight, concentrations of urinary glucose and
blood liver enzymes were taken. Ovarian activity was assessed by analysis of
urinary progestin levels and ultrasound examinations of the ovaries.
Ultrasonography was also used to evaluate uterine morphology. MGA was highly
effective in preventing pregnancies in the study animals. No changes in
biochemical parameters were found; however, seven females developed a substantial
weight gain during the study. Follicular development was not suppressed, as
indicated by the presence of antral follicles, luteinized structures, and
elevated urinary progestin levels. The uteri of the MGA-treated subjects were
moderately enlarged with a thickened endometrium that showed a marked change in
structural appearance indicative of hypertrophy and decidualization. After
implant removal these changes quickly disappeared and all females ovulated within
3 weeks and conceived within 4 months post-treatment. MGA appears to be an
acceptable contraceptive in the marmoset, although non-steroidal methods should
be evaluated as possible potential alternatives.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0684.1999.tb00087.x 
PMID: 10372539  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

