

3440. J Endocrinol. 1999 Jun;161(3):433-43.

Direct effects of the prostaglandins E2 and f2alpha on progesterone release by
the corpus luteum of the marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus) studied by in vitro
microdialysis.

Fehrenbach A(1), Hodges JK, Einspanier A.

Author information: 
(1)Centre of Anatomy, Electron Microscopy, University of Göttingen, Kreuzbergring
36, D-37075 Göttingen, Germany.

The effects of the prostaglandins (PG) E2 and F2alpha on progesterone secretion
in luteal tissue (32 corpora lutea) explanted from the mid-luteal ovary of the
marmoset monkey (n=13) were investigated using an in vitro microdialysis system. 
Consecutive applications of 1, 10 and 100 microg/ml PGE2 resulted in a
significant increase in secretion of progesterone at the maximum dose of 100
microg/ml, which was shown to be the stimulatory dose in both long-period and
20-min pulse (time to collect one fraction) applications. The response varied
individually between 1.4- and 3. 4-fold above the baseline concentrations.
Application of 500 microg/ml PGF2alpha led to similar hormone responses. In
contrast, lower doses of PGF2alpha (0.5, 5 and 50 microg/ml) resulted in
significantly increased levels of secretion of progesterone, to approximately
1.4-fold baseline values, only after the application was terminated (echo
effect). Responses were less variable when a short pulse of 20 min duration was
applied, instead of long applications of 1-2 h. On the basis of the passage rates
measured for tritiated PGF2alpha, transfer through the dialysis membrane was
assumed to be in the range of 1% for both PGs. Ultrastructurally, luteal cells
lying in a sheath of five to seven cell layers around the dialysis tubing
appeared intact and were interconnected by gap junctions. Vesiculation of the
smooth endoplasmic reticulum was more prominent after PG treatment, indicating a 
stimulation of cellular synthesis/secretory activities that was in accordance
with the stimulatory action of both PGs on progesterone release under these in
vitro conditions.

DOI: 10.1677/joe.0.1610433 
PMID: 10333546  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3441. J Exp Zool. 1999 Apr 15;285(1):27-40.

Model for the fetal recruitment of simian gamma-globin genes based on findings
from two New World monkeys Cebus apella and Callithrix jacchus (Platyrrhini,
Primates).

Chiu CH(1), Gregoire L, Gumucio DL, Muniz JA, Lancaster WD, Goodman M.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Molecular Medicine and Genetics, Wayne State University School of
Medicine, Detroit, Michigan 48201, USA.

The originally embryonic gamma-globin locus duplicated and acquired a novel
(fetal) pattern of expression in a defined time period (55-40 million years ago) 
during primate phylogeny. The objective of this study was to determine some of
the factors that led to first the emergence of fetal gamma specificity and then
the maintenance of different fetal gamma expression patterns in extant simian
primates (e.g., human, capuchin monkey). Analyses focused on two platyrrhine (New
World monkey) species: the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) and the brown
capuchin monkey (Cebus apella), each of which has paired, non-allelic gamma loci 
(5'-gamma 1-gamma 2-3'). Quantitation of beta-type globin mRNAs expressed in a
4.5 week old embryo of Callithrix jacchus revealed that in addition to its
primary epsilon-globin message, considerable amounts of gamma 1 message and just 
trace levels of gamma 2 message are present. In contrast, analyses of
gamma-globin messenger RNAs expressed in a Cebus apella fetal liver indicated
that gamma 2 expression is at least 120 times greater than gamma 1 expression.
Using a luciferase reporter and a transient assay system, the strengths of gamma 
1 and gamma 2 promoter fragments of Cebus apella were compared in erythroid
(K562) and non-erythroid (HeLa) cell lines. Due to the lack of chromatin
repression in a transient expression system, the results do not fully
recapitulate globin expression. However, the results suggest that sequences
contained within the Cebus gamma 1 and gamma 2 proximal promoter regions (-200 to
+1 bp) can direct gamma transcription in both cell lines. In K562 and, to a
lesser extent, in HeLa cells Cebus gamma 2 promoter fragments were significantly 
stronger (P < 0.01) than gamma 1 promoter fragments. This is consistent with the 
fact that the Cebus gamma 1 promoter contains several mutations, including a
proximal CCAAT box mutation (CCAAT-->CCAAc). The epsilon-gamma 1 intergenic
distances in these platyrrhines (5.4 kb in Cebus apella and 6.9 kb in Callithrix 
jacchus) are short, supporting the inference that it was also short in the stem
simian primates. The results suggest that immediately following the gamma
duplication, the gamma 1 gene of the stem simians was still embryonic and the
downstream gamma 2 gene was largely silent. A further inference is that once
gamma 2 accumulated regulatory mutations that disrupted binding of fetal
repressors, gamma 2 was expressed fetally and, through gene conversion, passed
these characteristics to the gamma 1 gene. The fetal expression of gamma 1 is
most evident in catarrhines (Old World monkeys and hominoids), which
preferentially express the gamma 1 locus during fetal life.


PMID: 10327648  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

