

3447. Mol Hum Reprod. 1999 Apr;5(4):342-52.

Design and evaluation of a ZP3 peptide vaccine in a homologous primate model.

Paterson M(1), Wilson MR, Jennings ZA, van Duin M, Aitken RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council, Reproductive Biology Unit, Centre for Reproductive
Biology, Edinburgh, UK.

The concept of a safe, immunocontraceptive vaccine using the zona pellucida
glycoprotein 3 (ZP3) as an immunogen has been marred by the appearance of ovarian
dysfunction in several species. However, careful selection of epitopes on mouse
ZP3 have demonstrated that it is possible to segregate contraceptive bone
marrow-derived (B)-cell epitopes from the cytotoxic thymus-derived (T)-cell
epitopes thought to be responsible for inducing ovarian disease. B-cell epitopes 
on marmoset ZP3 (mstZP3) were identified by epitope mapping studies. Using a
panel of polyclonal antibodies against recombinant mstZP3, an immunodominant
epitope mstZP3(301-320) was identified. A chimeric peptide was co-linearly
synthesized incorporating this sequence with a promiscuous tetanus toxoid
T-helper cell epitope. Using the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) as an
animal model, we have compared the consequences of active immunization with
homologous recombinant mstZP3 and mstZP3(301-320) chimeric peptide vaccine.
Long-term infertility was achieved using mstZP3 but at the expense of ovarian
function. In contrast, no disruption to ovarian function was observed following
mstZP3(301-320) immunization. Antibodies to this peptide immunolocalized to the
zona pellucida of both marmoset and human ovarian sections and inhibited human
sperm-zona binding by approximately 60% in vitro. However, in-vivo studies
indicated that targeting a single ZP3 epitope was insufficient to reliably and
consistently achieve a contraceptive effect.

DOI: 10.1093/molehr/5.4.342 
PMID: 10321806  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3448. J Wildl Dis. 1999 Apr;35(2):384-7.

Genetically engineered Mengo virus vaccination of multiple captive wildlife
species.

Backues KA(1), Hill M, Palmenberg AC, Miller C, Soike KF, Aguilar R.

Author information: 
(1)Tulsa Zoo and Living Museum, Oklahoma 74155, USA. kbackues@ci.tulsa.ok.us

Encephalomyocarditis virus (EMCV), has caused the deaths of many species of
animals in zoological parks and research institutions. The Audubon Park Zoo, (New
Orleans, Louisiana, USA) attempted vaccination of several species with a killed
EMCV vaccine with mixed results. This paper reports an attempt at vaccination
against EMCV using a genetically engineered, live attenuated Mengo virus (vMC0)
at the Audubon Park Zoo and Miami Metro Zoo, (Miami, Florida, USA) from December 
1996 to June 1997. Several species of animals were vaccinated with vMC0, which is
serologically indistinguishable from the field strain of EMCV. Serum samples were
taken at the time of vaccination and again 21 days later, then submitted for
serum neutralization titers against EMCV. The vaccinate species included red
capped mangebey (Cercocebus torquatus), colobus (Colobus guereza), angolan
colobus (Colobus angolensis), ruffed lemur (Lemur variegatus ruber and Lemur
variegatus variegatus), back lemur (Lemur macaco), ring-tailed lemur (Lemur
catta), siamang (Hylobates syndactylus), diana guenon (Cercopithicus diana),
spider monkey (Ateles geoffroyi), common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), talapoin 
monkey (Cercopithecus talapoin), Brazilian tapir (Tapirus terrestris), Baird's
tapir (Tapirus bairdii), Malayan tapir (Tapirus indicus), dromedary camel
(Camelus dromedarius), bactrian camel (Camelus bactrianus), gerenuk (Litocranius 
walleri), guanaco (Lama glama guanicoe), black duiker (Cephalophus niger),
Vietnamese potbellied pig (Sus scrofa), babirusa (Babyrousa babyrussa), collard
peccary (Tayass tajacu), and African crested porcupine (Hystrix
africaeaustralis). The vaccine response was variable, with high virus
neutralizing antibody titer responses in some primate species and mixed to poor
responses for other species. No ill effects were seen with vaccination.

DOI: 10.7589/0090-3558-35.2.384 
PMID: 10231768  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

