

3448. J Wildl Dis. 1999 Apr;35(2):384-7.

Genetically engineered Mengo virus vaccination of multiple captive wildlife
species.

Backues KA(1), Hill M, Palmenberg AC, Miller C, Soike KF, Aguilar R.

Author information: 
(1)Tulsa Zoo and Living Museum, Oklahoma 74155, USA. kbackues@ci.tulsa.ok.us

Encephalomyocarditis virus (EMCV), has caused the deaths of many species of
animals in zoological parks and research institutions. The Audubon Park Zoo, (New
Orleans, Louisiana, USA) attempted vaccination of several species with a killed
EMCV vaccine with mixed results. This paper reports an attempt at vaccination
against EMCV using a genetically engineered, live attenuated Mengo virus (vMC0)
at the Audubon Park Zoo and Miami Metro Zoo, (Miami, Florida, USA) from December 
1996 to June 1997. Several species of animals were vaccinated with vMC0, which is
serologically indistinguishable from the field strain of EMCV. Serum samples were
taken at the time of vaccination and again 21 days later, then submitted for
serum neutralization titers against EMCV. The vaccinate species included red
capped mangebey (Cercocebus torquatus), colobus (Colobus guereza), angolan
colobus (Colobus angolensis), ruffed lemur (Lemur variegatus ruber and Lemur
variegatus variegatus), back lemur (Lemur macaco), ring-tailed lemur (Lemur
catta), siamang (Hylobates syndactylus), diana guenon (Cercopithicus diana),
spider monkey (Ateles geoffroyi), common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), talapoin 
monkey (Cercopithecus talapoin), Brazilian tapir (Tapirus terrestris), Baird's
tapir (Tapirus bairdii), Malayan tapir (Tapirus indicus), dromedary camel
(Camelus dromedarius), bactrian camel (Camelus bactrianus), gerenuk (Litocranius 
walleri), guanaco (Lama glama guanicoe), black duiker (Cephalophus niger),
Vietnamese potbellied pig (Sus scrofa), babirusa (Babyrousa babyrussa), collard
peccary (Tayass tajacu), and African crested porcupine (Hystrix
africaeaustralis). The vaccine response was variable, with high virus
neutralizing antibody titer responses in some primate species and mixed to poor
responses for other species. No ill effects were seen with vaccination.

DOI: 10.7589/0090-3558-35.2.384 
PMID: 10231768  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3449. Virus Res. 1999 Mar;60(1):41-54.

Functional analysis of different LMP1 proteins isolated from Epstein-Barr
virus-positive carriers.

Fischer N(1), Kopper B, Graf N, Schlehofer JR, Grässer FA, Mueller-Lantzsch N.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Medizinische Mikrobiologie und Hygiene, Abteilung Virologie,
Universitätskliniken, Homburg/Saar, Germany.

The Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) is the causative agent of infectious mononucleosis
and is implicated in the development of several human malignancies. Latent
membrane protein 1 (LMP1), an EBV protein with known oncogenic properties, may be
important in the pathogenesis of EBV-associated tumors, particularly
nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) and Hodgkin's disease (HD). Several reports
suggested that sequence variations in the LMP1 gene may define a more aggressive,
geographically restricted EBV-genotype. Most mutations in the LMP1 gene described
are located within the C-terminus of the protein. However, the effect of these
mutations on the biological function of the protein remains widely unknown.
Therefore, this study aimed in investigating whether mutations detected in LMP1
genes isolated from different EBV-positive carriers have an effect on the
biological function of the protein. For this purpose the LMP1 genes were
amplified by nested PCR from DNA out of bone marrow and peripheral blood
lymphocytes and sequenced. Three functional assays were performed in order to
evaluate the biological activity of the different isolates: activation of the
transcription factors NF-kappaB and AP-1 as well as the anchorage independent
growth of LMP1 transfected ratl cells in soft agar. The results suggested that
whereas differences in the activation of NF-kappaB through the various LMP1
isolates correlated tightly with their different expression levels, the outgrowth
of transfected cells in soft agar did not and the transcription factor NF-kappaB 
therefore appeared not to be the major effector for the transformation of the
rodent cell line ratl by LMP1. The various LMP1-isolates also differed in their
capacity in activating the transcription factor AP-1. We found no correlation
between the transforming ability of the LMPI isolates and activation of AP-1
suggesting that other so far uncharacterized domains also influence the
transforming ability of the protein.

DOI: 10.1016/s0168-1702(98)00147-6 
PMID: 10225273  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

