

3449. Virus Res. 1999 Mar;60(1):41-54.

Functional analysis of different LMP1 proteins isolated from Epstein-Barr
virus-positive carriers.

Fischer N(1), Kopper B, Graf N, Schlehofer JR, Grässer FA, Mueller-Lantzsch N.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Medizinische Mikrobiologie und Hygiene, Abteilung Virologie,
Universitätskliniken, Homburg/Saar, Germany.

The Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) is the causative agent of infectious mononucleosis
and is implicated in the development of several human malignancies. Latent
membrane protein 1 (LMP1), an EBV protein with known oncogenic properties, may be
important in the pathogenesis of EBV-associated tumors, particularly
nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) and Hodgkin's disease (HD). Several reports
suggested that sequence variations in the LMP1 gene may define a more aggressive,
geographically restricted EBV-genotype. Most mutations in the LMP1 gene described
are located within the C-terminus of the protein. However, the effect of these
mutations on the biological function of the protein remains widely unknown.
Therefore, this study aimed in investigating whether mutations detected in LMP1
genes isolated from different EBV-positive carriers have an effect on the
biological function of the protein. For this purpose the LMP1 genes were
amplified by nested PCR from DNA out of bone marrow and peripheral blood
lymphocytes and sequenced. Three functional assays were performed in order to
evaluate the biological activity of the different isolates: activation of the
transcription factors NF-kappaB and AP-1 as well as the anchorage independent
growth of LMP1 transfected ratl cells in soft agar. The results suggested that
whereas differences in the activation of NF-kappaB through the various LMP1
isolates correlated tightly with their different expression levels, the outgrowth
of transfected cells in soft agar did not and the transcription factor NF-kappaB 
therefore appeared not to be the major effector for the transformation of the
rodent cell line ratl by LMP1. The various LMP1-isolates also differed in their
capacity in activating the transcription factor AP-1. We found no correlation
between the transforming ability of the LMPI isolates and activation of AP-1
suggesting that other so far uncharacterized domains also influence the
transforming ability of the protein.

DOI: 10.1016/s0168-1702(98)00147-6 
PMID: 10225273  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3450. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 1999 Jun;12(1):74-82.

Molecular phylogeny of new world primates (Platyrrhini) based on
beta2-microglobulin DNA sequences.

Canavez FC(1), Moreira MA, Ladasky JJ, Pissinatti A, Parham P, Seuánez HN.

Author information: 
(1)Fairchild Building D-100, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford,
California, 94305-5126, USA.

Neotropical primates, traditionally grouped in the infraorder Platyrrhini,
comprise 16 extant genera. Cladistic analyses based on morphological
characteristics and molecular data resulted in topologic arrangements depicting
disparate phylogenetic relationships, indicating that the evolution of gross
morphological characteristics and molecular traits is not necessarily congruent. 
Here we present a phylogenetic arrangement for all neotropical primate genera
obtained from DNA sequence analyses of the beta2-microglobulin gene. Parsimony,
distance, and maximum likelihood analyses favored two families, Atelidae and
Cebidae, each containing 8 genera. Atelids were resolved into atelines and
pitheciines. The well-supported ateline clade branched into alouattine (Alouatta)
and ateline (Ateles, Lagothrix, Brachyteles) clades. In turn, within the Ateline 
clade, Lagothrix and Brachyteles were well-supported sister groups. The
pitheciines branched into well-supported callicebine (Callicebus) and pitheciine 
(Pithecia, Cacajao, Chiropotes) clades. In turn, within the pitheciine clade,
Cacajao and Chiropotes were well-supported sister groups. The cebids branched
into callitrichine (Saguinus, Leontopithecus, Callimico, Callithrix-Cebuella),
cebine (Cebus, Saimiri), and aotine (Aotus) clades. While the callitrichine clade
and the groupings of species and genera within this clade were all well
supported, the cebine clade received only modest support, and the position of
Aotus could not be clearly established. Cladistic analyses favored the
proposition of 15 rather than 16 extant genera by including Cebuella pygmaea in
the genus Callithrix as the sister group of the Callithrix argentata species
group. These analyses also favored the sister grouping of Callimico with
Callithrix and then of Leontopithecus with the Callithrix-Callimico clade.

Copyright 1999 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/mpev.1998.0589 
PMID: 10222163  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

