

3451. Chronobiol Int. 1999 Mar;16(2):149-61.

Effect of ambient temperature on the circadian activity rhythm in common
marmosets, Callithrix j. jacchus (primates).

Pálková M(1), Sigmund L, Erkert HG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Zoology, Faculty of Sciences, Charles University, Prague 2,
Czech Republic.

Whereas the (zeitgeber) effect of ambient temperature Ta and temperature cycles
TaC's on circadian rhythmicity has been well documented for heterothermic
mammals, inconsistent results have been obtained for strictly homeothermic
species. Hence, it might be inferred that the susceptibility of the mammalian
circadian timing system (CTS) to Ta and TaC's depends on the range of the
animals' core and/or brain temperature rhythm. This hypothesis was tested in the 
common marmoset (Callithrix j. jacchus, n = 12), a small diurnal primate with an 
amplitude in body temperature rhythm that is larger than for other homeothermic
primates studied so far. Within the range 20-30 degrees C, no systematic effects 
of constant Ta on most parameters of the marmosets' light-dark (LD)-entrained and
free-running circadian activity rhythm (CAR) were found. Significant differences 
could be established in the average amount of activity per circadian cycle. It
was highest at Ta 25 degrees C (LD) and 20 degrees C (light-light, LL) and most
probably reflected a temperature-induced masking effect. A 24 h trapezoidal TaC
of 20:30 degrees C entrained the free-running CAR in two of six marmosets and
produced relative coordination in all others. Accordingly, in all animals tested,
it had an effect on the CTS. In marmosets free running in LL at a Ta of 20
degrees C or 30 degrees C, 3 h warm and cold pulses of 30 degrees C and 20
degrees C, respectively, produced neither systematic phase responses nor period
responses of the CAR. So, there is no evidence of a phase-response mechanism
underlying circadian entrainment. The results show that large-amplitude TaC's
function as a weak zeitgeber for the marmosets' CTS. Since this zeitgeber effect 
is significantly larger than that found in owl monkeys, the results are
consistent with the starting hypothesis that the zeitgeber effect of a given TaC 
on the mammalian CTS may be related to the amplitude of the species' core and/or 
brain temperature cycle.

DOI: 10.3109/07420529909019082 
PMID: 10219487  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3452. Free Radic Biol Med. 1999 Mar;26(5-6):495-500.

Positive correlation between mammalian life span and cellular resistance to
stress.

Kapahi P(1), Boulton ME, Kirkwood TB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geriatric Medicine and The School of Biological Sciences,
University of Manchester, UK.

Identifying the mechanisms determining species-specific life spans is a central
challenge in understanding the biology of aging. Cellular stresses produce
damage, that may accumulate and cause aging. Evolution theory predicts that
long-lived species secure their longevity through investment in a more durable
soma, including enhanced cellular resistance to stress. To investigate whether
cells from long-lived species have better mechanisms to cope with oxidative and
non-oxidative stress, we compared cellular resistance of primary skin fibroblasts
from eight mammalian species with a range of life spans. Cell survival was
measured by the thymidine incorporation assay following stresses induced by
paraquat, hydrogen peroxide, tert-butyl hydroperoxide, sodium arsenite and
alkaline pH (sodium hydroxide). Significant positive correlations between cell
LD90 and maximum life span were found for all these stresses. Similar results
were obtained when cell survival was measured by the MTT assay, and when
lymphocytes from different species were compared. Cellular resistance to a
variety of oxidative and non-oxidative stresses was positively correlated with
mammalian longevity. Our results support the concept that the gene network
regulating the cellular response to stress is functionally important in aging and
longevity.

DOI: 10.1016/s0891-5849(98)00323-2 
PMID: 10218637  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

