

3453. Zygote. 1999 Feb;7(1):27-35.

Cloning, sequencing and site of origin of the rat sperm receptor protein, ZP3.

Scobie GA(1), Kerr LE, MacDuff P, Aitken RJ.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Reproductive Biology Unit, Edinburgh, UK.

The ZP3 gene encodes for a zona glycoprotein that serves as both a cell-specific 
binding site for capacitated spermatozoa and an inducer of acrosomal exocytosis
during fertilisation. In this study we have determined the nucleotide sequence of
rat ZP3 (accession no. Y10823), predicted primary amino acid structure and
determined the cellular origin of this molecule within the ovary. Rat ZP3 was
found to have an open reading frame of 1272 nucleotides encoding a polypeptide
chain of 424 amino acids that was expressed exclusively by the actively growing
oocyte population. Rat ZP3 exhibited 91%, 78% and 66% identity with the mouse,
hamster and human homologues, respectively. Key features of mouse ZP3, including 
the number and location of cysteine and proline residues and N-linked
glycosylation sites, were also conserved in the rat homologue. The putative
O-linked glycosylation sites, a series of serine residues at ZP3(329-334), were
also conserved in rat and mouse ZP3, although immediately downstream of this site
the amino acid sequences deviated over a short stretch of amino acids. The
hydropathicity profile revealed two hydrophobic domains. The first was associated
with a putative N-terminal signal sequence which is unusual in the rat in
possessing a proline residue at the -1 position relative to the signal cleavage
site, a feature it shares with human and marmoset ZP3 but not mouse. The second
hydrophobic domain was observed at the C-terminus downstream of a TGF-beta type
III receptor domain that appears to be common to all ZP3 sequences examined to
date.

DOI: 10.1017/s0967199499000362 
PMID: 10216914  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3454. Blood. 1999 May 1;93(9):2839-48.

The common marmoset as a target preclinical primate model for cytokine and gene
therapy studies.

Hibino H(1), Tani K, Ikebuchi K, Wu MS, Sugiyama H, Nakazaki Y, Tanabe T,
Takahashi S, Tojo A, Suzuki S, Tanioka Y, Sugimoto Y, Nakahata T, Asano S.

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Hematology/Oncology and Clinical Oncology, The Institute of
Medical Science, The University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan.

Nonhuman primate models are useful to evaluate the safety and efficacy of new
therapeutic modalities, including gene therapy, before the inititation of
clinical trials in humans. With the aim of establishing safe and effective
approaches to therapeutic gene transfer, we have been focusing on a small New
World monkey, the common marmoset, as a target preclinical model. This animal is 
relatively inexpensive and easy to breed in limited space. First, we
characterized marmoset blood and bone marrow progenitor cells (BMPCs) and showed 
that human cytokines were effective to maintain and stimulate in culture. We then
examined their susceptibility to transduction by retroviral vectors. In a mixed
culture system containing both marmoset stromal cells and retroviral producer
cells, the transduction efficiency into BMPCs and peripheral blood progenitor
cells (PBPCs) was 12% to 24%. A series of marmosets then underwent
transplantation with autologous PBPCs transduced with a retroviral vector
carrying the multidrug resistance 1 gene (MDR1) and were followed for the
persistence of these cells in vivo. Proviral DNA was detectable by polymerase
chain reaction (PCR) in peripheral blood granulocytes and lymphocytes in the
recipients of gene transduced progenitors up to 400 days posttransplantation. To 
examine the function of the MDR1 gene in vivo, recipient maromsets were
challenged with docetaxel, an MDR effluxed drug, yet the overall level of gene
transfer attained in vivo (<1% in peripheral blood granulocytes) was not
sufficient to prevent the neutropenia induced by docetaxel treatment. Using this 
model, we safely and easily performed a series of in vivo studies in our small
animal center. Our results show that this small nonhuman primate, the common
marmoset, is a useful model for the evaluation of gene transfer methods targeting
hematopoietic stem cells.


PMID: 10216078  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

