

3457. J Hum Evol. 1999 Apr;36(4):349-78.

Hand specialization, sympatry, and mixed-species associations in callitrichines.

César J(1), Bicca-Marques JC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anthropology, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, 109
Davenport Hall, Urbana, IL 61801, USA.

Hand morphology in callitrichines (i.e., tamarins, marmosets, and Goeldi's
monkey) is correlated with positional and foraging behaviors. This study examines
hand shape in callitrichines using an allometric approach. It addresses a series 
of questions relating hand anatomy, insect foraging behavior, and resource
partitioning in callitrichines. The main questions are: 1. Do the hands of
Leontopithecus differ in shape from all other callitrichine taxa allowing it to
perform highly manipulative prey foraging behaviors? 2. Are the hands of Saguinus
fuscicollis adapted to manipulative foraging, and are they functionally similar
to Leontopithecus' hands? 3. Is hand morphology in S. fuscicollis more similar to
the hand morphology of sympatric tamarin species with whom it does not form mixed
species troops (S. nigricollis and S. tripartitus) than to those sympatric
tamarin species with whom it does form mixed troops (S. mystax, S. labiatus, and 
S. imperator)? Measurements of hand length (HL), width (HW), and thickness (HT)
were taken from 1350 museum specimens of callitrichines (Callithrix, Cebuella,
Leontopithecus, Saguinus, and Callimico), squirrel monkeys (Saimiri), and owl
monkeys (Aotus). The analysis indicates that hand shape covaries with foraging
strategy. Specifically, the hands of Leontopithecus are adapted for manipulative 
foraging and are relatively longer and more slender than the hands of other
callitrichines. A similar pattern is observed in the hands of S. fuscicollis, S. 
tripartitus and S. nigricollis. These latter species, however, differ
significantly in shape from all other tamarin species. Large differences in hand 
morphology are observed among tamarin species that form mixed-species troops.
These anatomical differences may permit resource partitioning and coexistence
among these closely related taxa. Hand shape, expressed as log HLGM (logged hand 
length divided by the geometric mean of all measurements), is a good predictor of
manipulative and non-manipulative prey foraging techniques employed by
callitrichines.

Copyright 1999 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/jhev.1998.0272 
PMID: 10208791  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3458. J Med Primatol. 1998 Dec;27(6):319-24.

Gastrointestinal tumors observed in nonhuman primates at the German primate
center.

Brack M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, German Primate Center, Göttingen.

Twenty-six gastrointestinal tumors were observed in twenty-three nonhuman
primates during routine necropsies at the German Primate Center, Göttingen. The
majority (15 cases) were colorectal mucoid adenocarcinomas in cotton-top tamarins
(Saguinus oedipus), which in two animals were associated with gastric adenomas.
Three cases of small intestinal mucoid adenocarcinomas occurred in common
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). One colonic leiomyoma was observed in a dwarf
galago (Galagoides demidovii) and another one in a cotton top tamarin. Singular
findings were a tubular adeno-carcinoma of the ileo-caecal valve in a
saddle-backed tamarin (Saguinus fuscicollis) and a lymphosarcoma of jejunum,
ileum, and colon in another saddle-backed tamarin. Multiple tubular
adeno-carcinomas of the colonic diverticles occurred in an aged rhesus monkey
(Macaca mulatta). The findings are discussed in comparison to the situation in
man.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0684.1998.tb00082.x 
PMID: 10203013  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

