

3467. Eur J Pharmacol. 1999 Feb 26;368(1):57-66.

New hyperprolactinemia and anovulation model in common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus) and effect of cabergoline.

Moro M(1), Inada Y, Kojima M, Miyata H, Komatsu H, Torii R.

Author information: 
(1)Pharmacological Laboratories, Kissei Pharmaceutical, Kashiwabara, Nagano,
Japan.

We aimed to develop an anovulation model, using sulpiride-induced
hyperprolactinemia in common marmosets. The serum prolactin level gradually
increased during the twice-daily administration of sulpiride and reached a
plateau after 4 days. Sulpiride produced as big a response at 10 mg kg(-1) as at 
50 mg kg(-1). In this study, the length of the ovarian cycle was approximately 30
days in normal common marmosets. Serum progesterone and estradiol levels showed
no consistent change during the first 2 months of treatment with sulpiride. When 
treatment with sulpiride had been continued for more than 2 months, serum
progesterone and estradiol levels fell to within the range seen in the follicular
phase of the normal cycle and absence of ovulation was recognized by laparoscopy.
A single oral administration of cabergoline (at doses between 0.01 and 0.1 mg
kg(-1)) dose dependently reduced the elevated serum prolactin level.
Bromocriptine (at an oral dose of 10 mg kg(-1)) also reduced the serum prolactin 
level at 4 and 8 h after its administration. With bromocriptine, the prolactin
level had recovered at 24 h, but with cabergoline at doses of 0.05 mg kg(-1) or
more, it had still not recovered at 48 h. In anovulatory common marmosets, oral
administration of cabergoline at a daily dose of 0.05 mg kg(-1) restored ovarian 
function and resulted in ovulation in 100% of the group (following a reduction in
the serum prolactin level). Bromocriptine at a daily oral dose of 10 mg kg(-1)
resulted in ovulation in 67% of the group, but this dose was about 200 times
higher than the dose of cabergoline. We could produce an anovulatory model
induced by sulpiride repeatedly administered over a long time period. It is
suggested that, in this anovulatory model in common marmosets, cabergoline has a 
potent and long-lasting action as a dopamine D2 receptor agonist, and thus could 
be a useful drug for the treatment of galactorrhea and hyperprolactinemic
amenorrhea and/or anovulation.

DOI: 10.1016/s0014-2999(98)00940-6 
PMID: 10096770  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3468. Tissue Cell. 1998 Jun;30(3):360-7.

Possible involvement of transforming growth factor-beta 1 and transforming growth
factor-beta receptor type II during luteinization in the marmoset ovary.

Wehrenberg U(1), Giebel J, Rune GM.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Anatomie, Emst-Moritz-Arndt-Universität, Greifswald, Germany.
wehrenbe@rz.uni-greifswald.de

The expression of transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-beta 1), and
transforming growth factor-beta receptor type II (T beta R-II), were evaluated in
periovulatory marmoset ovaries. Histochemical methods were used, in particular
double-labelling techniques, in order to correlate growth factor/receptor
expression with proliferation (Ki 67), apoptosis (TUNEL method) and luteinization
(3 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (3 beta-HSD)). The latter was used as a
luteinization marker. Periovulatory ovaries are especially suited for studying
all aspects since they typically consist of small non-luteinized follicles, large
luteinizing follicles and corpora lutea accessoria (Clas), which have developed
from large luteinizing follicles. TGF-beta 1 and T beta R-II expression was found
in luteinizing theca cells of large periovulatory follicles and in all luteal
cells of Clas. Non-luteinized theca cells, including those of small follicles
were always devoid of any immunostaining. Granulosa cells of small follicles were
immunopositive for T beta R-II. Large follicles with granulosa cell
immunoreactivity of both antibodies coexisted with non-reactive follicles of
comparable size. The highest activity of the luteal marker enzyme 3 beta-HSD was 
co-localized in the same cells that expressed TGF-beta 1 and T beta R-II. The
double-labelling experiments revealed that TGF-beta 1 and T beta R-II expression 
is not correlated with proliferation or apoptosis of follicular cells. Our
results indicate that TGF-beta 1 and T beta R-II participate in differentiation
processes, i.e. luteinization, rather than proliferation. In particular, the
dynamics of T beta R-II expression appear highly related to the process of
luteinization.

DOI: 10.1016/s0040-8166(98)80049-9 
PMID: 10091338  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

