

3468. Tissue Cell. 1998 Jun;30(3):360-7.

Possible involvement of transforming growth factor-beta 1 and transforming growth
factor-beta receptor type II during luteinization in the marmoset ovary.

Wehrenberg U(1), Giebel J, Rune GM.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Anatomie, Emst-Moritz-Arndt-Universität, Greifswald, Germany.
wehrenbe@rz.uni-greifswald.de

The expression of transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-beta 1), and
transforming growth factor-beta receptor type II (T beta R-II), were evaluated in
periovulatory marmoset ovaries. Histochemical methods were used, in particular
double-labelling techniques, in order to correlate growth factor/receptor
expression with proliferation (Ki 67), apoptosis (TUNEL method) and luteinization
(3 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (3 beta-HSD)). The latter was used as a
luteinization marker. Periovulatory ovaries are especially suited for studying
all aspects since they typically consist of small non-luteinized follicles, large
luteinizing follicles and corpora lutea accessoria (Clas), which have developed
from large luteinizing follicles. TGF-beta 1 and T beta R-II expression was found
in luteinizing theca cells of large periovulatory follicles and in all luteal
cells of Clas. Non-luteinized theca cells, including those of small follicles
were always devoid of any immunostaining. Granulosa cells of small follicles were
immunopositive for T beta R-II. Large follicles with granulosa cell
immunoreactivity of both antibodies coexisted with non-reactive follicles of
comparable size. The highest activity of the luteal marker enzyme 3 beta-HSD was 
co-localized in the same cells that expressed TGF-beta 1 and T beta R-II. The
double-labelling experiments revealed that TGF-beta 1 and T beta R-II expression 
is not correlated with proliferation or apoptosis of follicular cells. Our
results indicate that TGF-beta 1 and T beta R-II participate in differentiation
processes, i.e. luteinization, rather than proliferation. In particular, the
dynamics of T beta R-II expression appear highly related to the process of
luteinization.

DOI: 10.1016/s0040-8166(98)80049-9 
PMID: 10091338  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3469. Lab Anim Sci. 1998 Jun;48(3):264-9.

Growth variation in common marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) fed a purified
diet: relation to care-giving and weaning behaviors.

Tardif S(1), Jaquish C, Layne D, Bales K, Power M, Power R, Oftedal O.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Kent State University, OH 44242-0001, USA.

Significant relations were observed between select infant-care and weaning
behaviors and growth in body weight in common marmoset monkeys (Callithrix
jacchus). The patterns of these relations suggest that earlier occurrence of
developmental milestones, such as cessation of transport (being off carriers) and
weaning to solid food, were associated with slower growth during the subsequent
period. In contrast, more frequent nursing bouts during the period in which
weaning was initiated were associated with higher growth rates. In the case of
being off carriers, these effects did not carry over to older ages, suggesting
that any deficits in growth were temporary. In the case of earlier, more frequent
consumption of solid food, there was some suggestion that there were longer-term 
effects, followed by catch-up growth. The knee-to-heel length of subjects was not
related to the measured behaviors. There was no relation between early weaning to
solid food and leanness at day 75, suggesting that, although this behavior was
affecting overall weight, it did not affect relative gains of fat versus lean
mass. There were, however, significant correlations between cessation of
transport or frequency of nursing bouts during the weaning period and leanness,
with earlier cessation of transport and less frequent nursing associated with
leaner infants, after weaning. Our results differed from those of a previous
study that found a relation between linear growth and abuse in this species, with
abuse defined as physical injury by other members of the group. We found no
differences in growth between abused and nonabused infants. However, abused
infants had lower birth weight.


PMID: 10090026  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

