

3469. Lab Anim Sci. 1998 Jun;48(3):264-9.

Growth variation in common marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) fed a purified
diet: relation to care-giving and weaning behaviors.

Tardif S(1), Jaquish C, Layne D, Bales K, Power M, Power R, Oftedal O.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Kent State University, OH 44242-0001, USA.

Significant relations were observed between select infant-care and weaning
behaviors and growth in body weight in common marmoset monkeys (Callithrix
jacchus). The patterns of these relations suggest that earlier occurrence of
developmental milestones, such as cessation of transport (being off carriers) and
weaning to solid food, were associated with slower growth during the subsequent
period. In contrast, more frequent nursing bouts during the period in which
weaning was initiated were associated with higher growth rates. In the case of
being off carriers, these effects did not carry over to older ages, suggesting
that any deficits in growth were temporary. In the case of earlier, more frequent
consumption of solid food, there was some suggestion that there were longer-term 
effects, followed by catch-up growth. The knee-to-heel length of subjects was not
related to the measured behaviors. There was no relation between early weaning to
solid food and leanness at day 75, suggesting that, although this behavior was
affecting overall weight, it did not affect relative gains of fat versus lean
mass. There were, however, significant correlations between cessation of
transport or frequency of nursing bouts during the weaning period and leanness,
with earlier cessation of transport and less frequent nursing associated with
leaner infants, after weaning. Our results differed from those of a previous
study that found a relation between linear growth and abuse in this species, with
abuse defined as physical injury by other members of the group. We found no
differences in growth between abused and nonabused infants. However, abused
infants had lower birth weight.


PMID: 10090026  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3470. Hear Res. 1999 Feb;128(1-2):119-24.

Age-related changes in the brainstem auditory evoked potentials of the marmoset.

Harada T(1), Tokuriki M, Tanioka Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Veterinary Medicine, Faculty of Agriculture, Yamaguchi
University, Japan.

Changes in brain-stem auditory evoked potentials (BAEPs) with age were recorded
in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) at the age of 1-2, 6-8 and 10-12 years. 
The auditory function was assessed by thresholds, latencies and amplitudes of
BAEPs evoked by use of tone burst stimulations with audible frequencies ranging
from 1 to 99 kHz. Prolongation of the latencies of later waves was observed in
the animals at the age of 6-8 and 10-12 years at high frequencies, suggesting
that aging in marmosets, as reported previously in humans and other animals, may 
cause earlier hearing loss at high frequency than at low frequency within the
hearing range. At 10-12 years of age, the elevations of BAEP thresholds and the
declines of BAEP amplitudes in older animals were also observed. As the
differences in the parameters are small, it was suggested that only a moderate
hearing loss occurred with onset late in life in common marmoset similar to that 
in CBA/Ca mice. Based on the results obtained in this study, BAEP latencies
appear to be more sensitive indicators than BAEP thresholds and amplitudes for
the early detection of hearing impairment.

DOI: 10.1016/s0378-5955(98)00201-9 
PMID: 10082292  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

