

3472. Am J Primatol. 1999;47(3):241-53.

The influence of abiotic factors on the onset and cessation of activity of
semi-free Callithrix jacchus.

Suchi S(1), Rothe H.

Author information: 
(1)Ethologische Station der Anthropologischen Einrichtungen, Institut für
Zoologie und Anthropologie, Universität Göttingen, Germany.

The influence of abiotic environmental factors on the period of activity of a
single group of South American common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus,
Callitrichidae, Primates) was investigated under semi-free conditions. A group of
eight members had a territory consisting of a heated wooden hut with a veranda,
surrounded by an open area with a few trees (ca. 3.5 m high) and three runways
made out of roofing slats, on which feeding places and sleeping boxes were fixed.
The food supply was held constant throughout the observation period with respect 
to amount, composition and spatial distribution. From July to November 1995, the 
times of the onset and cessation of activity were determined using a video
camera. An electronic weather station recorded the temperature, humidity, air
pressure, wind speed, wind direction, precipitation, and light intensity at
intervals of 5 min. There was a linear correlation between day light length and
the length of the period of activity over a day length of 10 to 14 hr. With
shorter day lengths, the marmosets were also active during the twilight, whereas 
with longer day lengths a sleep phase during the late morning was introduced.
Ambient temperature and humidity had also an effect on the time when activity
began or ceased. Callithrix jacchus has one of the longest activity periods
within the Callitrichidae. The time of sunrise or sunset, temperature, and
humidity accounted for 66.2% of the variation in the time when activity began and
75.5% of the variance in the cessation of activity of the study group within the 
multivariate model. The results from the present study add to the indications
that in the Callitrichidae there is a strong selection pressure for the highest
possible energy saving during the comparatively long phase of inactivity.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1098-2345(1999)47:3<241::AID-AJP6>3.0.CO;2-B 
PMID: 10075438  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3473. Am J Primatol. 1999;47(3):209-22.

Effects of separation and novelty on distress vocalizations and cortisol in the
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Norcross JL(1), Newman JD.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Comparative Ethology, NICHD, NIH, Poolesville, Maryland 20837,
USA. jn41j@nih.gov

In socially-bonding species, separation from familiar attachment figures is
widely known to stimulate a physiological and behavioral stress response. This
study investigated the hormonal and vocal responses of adult common marmosets to 
separation from familiar group members and to 24 hr of cohabitation with an
unfamiliar opposite-sex conspecific. All subjects were removed from their home
cages and placed into a novel environment for 20 min. In one group, marmosets
were exposed to an unfamiliar, opposite-sex partner in the novel environment and 
remained paired with this partner for the 24 hr test period. In three other
groups, marmosets experienced the novel environment alone and subsequently were
returned to their original social- or single-housing condition, or kept separate 
from their social groups for a 24 h period. Blood samples were collected the day 
before, and at 30 min, 90 min, and at 24 h after separation. Cortisol responses
were differentially affected by the length of separation and the presence of
unfamiliar conspecifics. Brief separation followed by the return to the social
group had minimal effect on plasma cortisol levels. All marmosets produced high
levels of separation calls in the novel environment, but there was no apparent
relationship between calling and cortisol levels. The lack of a temporal
relationship between the production of distress vocalizations and serum cortisol 
has previously been noted in squirrel monkey and rhesus monkey infant separation 
studies; the behavioral and physiological responses to separation appear to be
similarly dissociated in the marmoset. Further, the characteristics of a
separation environment can differentially affect the hormonal response by adult
marmosets without differentially affecting their behavioral response.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1098-2345(1999)47:3<209::AID-AJP3>3.0.CO;2-0 
PMID: 10075435  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

