

3479. Rev Bras Biol. 1998 Nov;58(4):665-9.

Cross-fostering between two species of marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) and
Callithrix penicillata).

Guerra RF(1), Takase E, Santos CV.

Author information: 
(1)Núcleo de Estudos Comportamentais de Primatas, Laboratório de Psicologia
Experimental, UFSC, Florianópolis, SC, Brazil. rfguerra@cfh.ufsc.br

Cross-fostering technique can be defined as adoption of infants by adults of
other species. This phenomenon is poorly investigated because very young animals 
have few opportunities to interact peacefully with non-conspecific adults, either
in captivity or in natural conditions. This study describes the induction of
cross-fostering in captivity between white tufted-ear (Callithrix jacchus) and
black tufted-ear marmosets (Callithrix penicillata). We conclude that this
technique can be very useful for preserving the life of rejected by parents or
orphan infants, mainly in the case of species with low reproduction rate in
captivity or those threatened by extinction, as well for investigating the
environmental effects on the typical behavior of species (courtship, food
preference, vocalization patterns, e.g.).

DOI: 10.1590/s0034-71081998000400014 
PMID: 10049101  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3480. Tissue Cell. 1998 Dec;30(6):651-61.

Blockade of the hypothalamic-pituitary-testicular axis with a GnRH antagonist in 
the neonatal marmoset monkey: changes in Leydig cell ultrastructure.

Prince FP(1), Mann DR, Fraser HM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Natural Science, Plymouth State College, NH 03264, USA.

Little is known of the cell biology of Leydig cells during the neonatal
activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-testicular (HPT) axis. The current study
examined the effect of blockade of the HPT axis with a GnRH antagonist (antide)
on the neonatal population of Leydig cells in the new world primate, the common
marmoset. Three sets of twins, age 7 weeks, were studied: in each pair one twin
was used as a control, while the other received treatment with GnRH antagonist
from the day of birth to suppress pituitary gonadotrophin secretion. Leydig cells
of treated animals were dramatically different from those of controls. The cells 
were atrophic and exhibited very irregular nuclei. The organelles involved in
steroid synthesis were reduced to the extent to being barely evident. The smooth 
endoplasmic reticulum (SER) was greatly diminished in quantity and distribution. 
The usual form of the SER (anastomosing tubules) was not evident, but, instead,
the SER was relatively unbranched. Peroxisomes, organelles involved in transfer
of cholesterol to the mitochondria, were greatly reduced in number. Mitochondria 
were relatively sparse and exhibited a non-typical morphology, as tubular
elements of the cristae were rarely evident. Thus, the central apparatus in
steroid production, the SER, mitochondria and peroxisomes, was essentially shut
down in the GnRH-antagonist-treated animals. Storage of cholesterol, the
precursor of steroid biosynthesis, was also not in evidence, as lipid droplets
were extremely rare. Two prominent features of control in neonatal marmoset
Leydig cells, the membranofibrillar inclusion (MFI) and basal laminae, remain
prominent in the Leydig cells of treated animals. Evidence of apoptosis was not
observed. These results provide strong support that the gonadotrophic hormones
are the primary regulator of neonatal Leydig cell development in primates, and
also suggest cell regression, rather than apoptosis, being the mechanism of this 
inhibition.

DOI: 10.1016/s0040-8166(98)80084-0 
PMID: 10036790  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

