

3483. Brain Res. 1999 Jan 2;815(1):44-50.

Effect of selegiline on dopamine concentration in the striatum of a primate.

Kaseda S(1), Nomoto M, Iwata S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Kagoshima University School of Medicine, Japan.
ksds@med1.kufm.kagoshima-u.ac.jp

Monoamine oxidase (MAO) has two subtypes, A and B, that have different
distributions between the rodent and the human. In the striatum, dopamine (DA) of
the rat seems to be metabolized by MAO A, and DA of the human is largely
deaminated by MAO B. MAO in the striatum of common marmosets is also type B.
Using in vivo microdialysis, we investigated the pharmacological activity of
selegiline, a selective irreversible inhibitor of MAO B, in the striatum of
marmosets. Intraperitoneal co-administration of selegiline (1 mg kg-1, i.p.) with
levodopa/carbidopa (10/2.5 mg kg-1, i.p.) did not significantly increase
extracellular concentration of DA in the striatum of common marmosets compared
with control animals receiving levodopa/carbidopa alone. Daily pretreatment with 
0.1 mg kg-1 (i.p.) selegiline for two weeks, however, dramatically increased
extracellular concentration of DA to about seven times that of control animals
treated with levodopa/carbidopa alone in marmosets. Such an increase in
extracellular concentrations of DA could not be observed in a similar study with 
Wistar rats. This study showed that chronic administration of a small dose of
selegiline caused a marked increase in extracellular DA concentration in the
striatum of primates, but not in the rodents.

DOI: 10.1016/s0006-8993(98)01089-0 
PMID: 9974121  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3484. J Immunol. 1999 Feb 15;162(4):2384-90.

Determinant spreading associated with demyelination in a nonhuman primate model
of multiple sclerosis.

McFarland HI(1), Lobito AA, Johnson MM, Nyswaner JT, Frank JA, Palardy GR,
Tresser N, Genain CP, Mueller JP, Matis LA, Lenardo MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Immunology, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious
Diseases, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.

Definition of the immune process that causes demyelination in multiple sclerosis 
is essential to determine the feasibility of Ag-directed immunotherapy. Using the
nonhuman primate, Callithrix jacchus jacchus (common marmoset), we show that
immunization with myelin basic protein and proteolipid protein determinants
results in clinical disease with significant demyelination. Demyelination was
associated with spreading to myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG)
determinants that generated anti-MOG serum Abs and Ig deposition in central
nervous system white matter lesions. These data associate intermolecular
"determinant spreading" with clinical autoimmune disease in primates and raise
important issues for the pathogenesis and treatment of multiple sclerosis.


PMID: 9973519  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

