

3488. Biol Reprod. 1999 Feb;60(2):445-53.

Differential splicing and expression of the relaxin-like factor gene in
reproductive tissues of the marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus).

Zarreh-Hoshyari-Khah MR(1), Einspanier A, Ivell R.

Author information: 
(1)IHF Institute for Hormone and Fertility Research, University of Hamburg, 22529
Hamburg, Germany.

The relaxin-like factor (RLF) is a novel member of the
insulin/relaxin/insulin-like growth factor family of growth factors and hormones 
that is expressed predominantly in the reproductive system, with highest
expression in the Leydig cells of the testis. Using a combination of molecular
and immunological techniques, we have characterized the structure and expression 
of the RLF gene from a primate model, the marmoset monkey, with the intention of 
comparing this with recent results on the closely related hormone relaxin in this
species. As in other species, including the human, RLF gene products can be
detected maximally in Leydig cells and in the follicular theca interna cells and 
corpora lutea of the ovary. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction
analysis confirmed this expression and showed that in the corpus luteum, testis, 
and epididymis, a second, alternative RLF gene transcript was present that is
expressed at low levels and that appears to be derived by differential splicing
of a novel exon. Analysis of genomic DNA from the marmoset showed that in this
species, the single-copy gene contains a longer intronic region separating the
two exons described for the human. Alternative splicing introduces a novel exon
1A between exons 1 and 2, which leads to an altered open reading frame, with a
new stop codon, such that if translated, the novel transcript will encode a
truncated polypeptide comprising a C-terminally extended B-domain.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod60.2.445 
PMID: 9916013  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3489. Vision Res. 1998 Nov;38(21):3345-52.

Morphology of P and M retinal ganglion cells of the bush baby.

Yamada ES(1), Marshak DW, Silveira LC, Casagrande VA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology and Anatomy, University of Texas Medical School,
Houston 77225, USA. eyamada@nba19.med.uth.tmc.edu

P/midget ganglion cells mediate red-green color opponency in anthropoids. It has 
been proposed that these cells evolved as a specialization to subserve color
vision in primates. If that is correct, they must have evolved about the same
time as the long-wavelength ('red') and medium-wavelength ('green') pigment genes
diverged, thirty million years ago. Strepsirhines are another group of primates
that diverged from the ancestor of the anthropoids at least 55 million years ago.
If P/midget ganglion cells evolved to subserve color vision, they should be
absent in strepsirhines. We tested this hypothesis in a nocturnal strepsirhine,
the greater bush baby Otolemur. The retinal ganglion cells were labeled with the 
lipophilic tracer Dil and the results show that bush babies have P/midget and
M/parasol cells similar to those found in the peripheral retinas of anthropoids. 
A number of studies have shown that the P and M pathways of bush babies share
many similarities with those of anthropoids, and our results show that the same
is true for their retinal ganglion cells. These results support the hypothesis
that the P system evolved prior to the emergence of red-green color opponency.

DOI: 10.1016/s0042-6989(97)00412-4 
PMCID: PMC3341668
PMID: 9893847  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

