

3495. Mamm Genome. 1998 Dec;9(12):1042-8.

Structural and evolutionary characterization of the human sorbitol dehydrogenase 
gene duplication.

Carr IM(1), Whitehouse A, Coletta PL, Markham AF.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Medicine Unit, University of Leeds, Clinical Sciences Building, St
James's University Hospital, Leeds LS9 7TF, United Kingdom.

We have established that two very closely homologous human sorbitol dehydrogenase
sequences lie within 0.5 Mb on Chromosome 15. We have defined the relative
orientation of SORD1 and SORD2 genes with respect to both the centromere and each
other and established their exact chromosome location. In addition, we have
identified polymorphic variants in the locus, which may be useful, in association
studies to predict predisposition to clinical problems resulting from decreased
conversion of cellular sorbitol to fructose. To define the evolutionary
relationship of these human genes, SORD from the marmoset was also sequenced for 
comparison. Marmoset SORD, which appears to be a single gene in this species,
shows significantly less homology with either SORD1 or SORD2 than they do with
each other, suggesting that the human homologs represent a recent gene
duplication event. A hypothesis is presented to explain the retention of the
redundant SORD2 sequence in the human genome.

DOI: 10.1007/s003359900922 
PMID: 9880675  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3496. Horm Behav. 1998 Dec;34(3):211-22.

Close proximity of the heterosexual partner reduces the physiological and
behavioral consequences of novel-cage housing in black tufted-ear marmosets
(Callithrix kuhli).

Smith TE(1), McGreer-Whitworth B, French JA.

Author information: 
(1)Nebraska Behavioral Biology Group and Department of Psychology, University of 
Nebraska at Omaha, Omaha, Nebraska, 68182, USA. Tessa_Smith@wda.disney.com

The present studies assessed the extent to which heterosexual pairmates could
buffer marmosets (Wied's black tufted-ear marmoset, Callithrix kuhli) against
stress. Six male and six female marmosets from established groups were exposed to
two experimental manipulations together with a control condition. Each condition 
lasted a total of 4 days. For the two experimental conditions, animals were
removed from the family group and housed in a novel cage for 48 h in either the
presence or the absence of the heterosexual pairmate. During the 48-h novel-cage 
housing period and for 48 h upon reunion of the subjects with the family group,
concentrations of urinary cortisol were measured in the first void sample of the 
day and behavioral observations were conducted. When animals were housed alone in
a novel cage they exhibited significant elevations in levels of urinary cortisol 
after 24 and 48 h of novel-cage exposure. In contrast, when marmosets were housed
in the novel cage in the presence of the pairmate, levels of urinary cortisol did
not change across the 4-day period. The presence of the social partner also
reduced the behavioral manifestations of exposure to novelty. Upon reunion with
the family group, animals that had been housed in the novel cage alone spent
significantly more time in close proximity to the pairmate than animals that had 
been housed with the partner. A second experiment was conducted to determine the 
effect that separation from the pairmate, only (independent of any effects of
novelty), had on levels of cortisol. Concentrations of urinary cortisol were
measured in subjects housed in the familiar home cage, but in the absence of the 
pairmate, over a 48-h period and compared to concentrations of excreted cortisol 
immediately prior to separation. Separation from the pairmate did not elevate
cortisol levels when the subject was housed in the home cage, suggesting that
elevated cortisol levels in animals housed alone in the novel cage were in
response to novelty exposure rather than to separation from the pairmate. Since
the physical presence of the heterosexual partner reduced the physiological and
behavioral effects of novel-cage housing, social attachments might function as
homeostatic regulators of HPA function in marmosets.

Copyright 1998 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/hbeh.1998.1469 
PMID: 9878270  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

