

3512. Biol Reprod. 1998 Dec;59(6):1491-7.

Parthenogenetic activation of marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) oocytes and the
development of marmoset parthenogenones in vitro and in vivo.

Marshall VS(1), Wilton LJ, Moore HD.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Zoology, Regent's Park, London, NW1 4RY, United Kingdom.
marshall@primate.wisc.edu

Mammalian oocytes can be induced to resume meiosis without fertilization, and the
resulting parthenogenetic embryos carry only maternal chromosomes. Human oocytes 
can be activated by many chemical and physical stimuli, but postimplantation
studies of human parthenogenetic embryos are not ethically acceptable. The common
marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus) is a good model for studying primate
parthenogenetic development postimplantation, since follicular aspiration, embryo
transfer, and early postimplantation development of biparental embryos have
already been described. Marmoset oocytes were either subjected to two series of
six electrical pulses (DC; 2 kV/cm and 70 microsec) or were incubated in 7%
ethanol in PBS. Ninety-two percent (68 of 74) and 20% (8 of 40) of marmoset
oocytes were activated by electrical stimulus or ethanol, respectively.
Parthenogenetic (n = 3) or in vitro-fertilized (n = 2) embryos were transferred
at the 4-cell stage to synchronized recipient female marmosets (n = 5).
Progesterone, chorionic gonadotropin, and inhibin in the peripheral plasma of
recipient animals were measured. After 33 days of gestation, recipient animals
were perfused and the uteri were collected. The 2 females that had received
biparental embryos and 2 of the 3 females that had received parthenogenetic
embryos displayed biochemical and histological evidence of implantation. This is 
the first report that a primate embryo comprising only parthenogenetic cells is
capable of implantation. This highlights the need to scrutinize levels of
parthenogenesis associated with human assisted reproductive technologies.
Marmoset parthenogenones also provide a unique model for elucidating the roles of
parental genomes in primate development.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod59.6.1491 
PMID: 9828197  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3513. J Anat. 1998 Aug;193 ( Pt 2):185-93.

Interspecies variations in oral epithelial cytokeratin expression.

Barrett AW(1), Selvarajah S, Franey S, Wills KA, Berkovitz BK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oral Pathology, Eastman Dental Institute for Oral Healthcare
Sciences, London, UK. A.Barrett@eastman.ucl.ac.uk

The aim of this study was to determine the degree to which the epidermis and oral
epithelium of species other than man express cytokeratin (CK) intermediate
filaments, which are markers of epithelial differentiation. Fixed, wax-embedded
samples of skin, buccal mucosa and gingiva from rhesus monkey, marmoset, cow,
sheep, pig, ferret, hamster, axolotl and trout were tested for CK expression
using a panel of antihuman CK antibodies and an immunoperoxidase procedure. Human
skin and oral mucosa were also stained to act as positive control. The results
showed that antihuman CK antibodies stained animal tissues, but the patterns of
staining were not always identical to the established human CK profile. Of
particular interest was the expression of CK18, typically only detected in
'simple' epithelium in man, in bovine, ferret and hamster stratified epithelium
from different sites. However, there was evidence of variable anti-CK antibody
cross-reactivity, both as a result of intrinsic variations in CK polypeptide
structure and as artifacts of fixation. We conclude that some CK are conserved
between species, but that biological variables, for example local functional
requirements, and technical factors affect the results. These considerations need
to be borne in mind in animal studies of epithelial differentiation employing CK 
immunohistochemistry. Biochemical characterisation is ultimately necessary to
determine specific differences between human and animal CK.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1469-7580.1998.19320185.x 
PMCID: PMC1467838
PMID: 9827634  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

