

3513. J Anat. 1998 Aug;193 ( Pt 2):185-93.

Interspecies variations in oral epithelial cytokeratin expression.

Barrett AW(1), Selvarajah S, Franey S, Wills KA, Berkovitz BK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oral Pathology, Eastman Dental Institute for Oral Healthcare
Sciences, London, UK. A.Barrett@eastman.ucl.ac.uk

The aim of this study was to determine the degree to which the epidermis and oral
epithelium of species other than man express cytokeratin (CK) intermediate
filaments, which are markers of epithelial differentiation. Fixed, wax-embedded
samples of skin, buccal mucosa and gingiva from rhesus monkey, marmoset, cow,
sheep, pig, ferret, hamster, axolotl and trout were tested for CK expression
using a panel of antihuman CK antibodies and an immunoperoxidase procedure. Human
skin and oral mucosa were also stained to act as positive control. The results
showed that antihuman CK antibodies stained animal tissues, but the patterns of
staining were not always identical to the established human CK profile. Of
particular interest was the expression of CK18, typically only detected in
'simple' epithelium in man, in bovine, ferret and hamster stratified epithelium
from different sites. However, there was evidence of variable anti-CK antibody
cross-reactivity, both as a result of intrinsic variations in CK polypeptide
structure and as artifacts of fixation. We conclude that some CK are conserved
between species, but that biological variables, for example local functional
requirements, and technical factors affect the results. These considerations need
to be borne in mind in animal studies of epithelial differentiation employing CK 
immunohistochemistry. Biochemical characterisation is ultimately necessary to
determine specific differences between human and animal CK.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1469-7580.1998.19320185.x 
PMCID: PMC1467838
PMID: 9827634  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3514. Comp Biochem Physiol C Pharmacol Toxicol Endocrinol. 1998 Jun;119(3):261-74.

Adaptations to subordinate status in female marmoset monkeys.

Abbott DH(1), Saltzman W, Schultz-Darken NJ, Tannenbaum PL.

Author information: 
(1)Wisconsin Regional Primate Research Center, Madison 53715-1299, USA.
abbott@primate.wisc.edu

In singular cooperatively breeding mammals, social status is a key determinant of
female reproductive success. Usually only one dominant female breeds in a social 
group. In the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a cooperatively breeding
primate, adaptations to nonbreeding subordinate status appear to parallel those
found in social insect societies which demonstrate similar skew to the marmoset
in female reproductive success. Female marmosets exhibit rank-related polyethism 
in behavior, reproductive neuroendocrinology and non-reproductive physiology, and
subordinates participate in alloparental care and territory defense. Olfactory,
visual and behavioral cues from dominant female marmosets provide important
proximate cues regulating ovarian inhibition in female subordinates.
Cooperatively breeding marmosets, therefore, appear to have developed specific
neural and neuroendocrine adaptations to subordinate social status analogous to
those found in social insects such as the lower wasps, bees and termites. Such
parallel developments probably reflect the outcome of repeated convergent
evolutionary attempts at adapting to environmental conditions not readily
conducive to dispersal and independent breeding.

DOI: 10.1016/s0742-8413(98)00015-2 
PMID: 9826999  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

