

3517. Tsitol Genet. 1998 Jul-Aug;32(4):82-8.

[The viral genome status studied under the conditions of a mixed infection in
lymphoblastoid cells by adenovirus and the Epstein-Barr virus].

[Article in Russian]

Nosach LN, Diachenko NS, Povnitsa OIu, Smirnova IA, Kishinskaia EG, Butenko ZA,
Panasenko GV.

Some indices have been studied which characterized the state of Epstein-Barr
virus genome and adenovirus in the implanted lines of lymphoblastoid cells of B
and T phenotype under the mixed or monoinfection. It has been shown that super
infection by type 2 adenovirus rather sharply affects the state of Epstein-Barr
virus genome in the Raji cells containing integrated Epstein-Barr virus genome.
The state of adenovirus genome in the studied cells is less subject to changes.
Its early area is revealed by hybridization using DNA-DNA method in a form of two
fragments of different intensity which is maximum in the Raji and Jurkat cells,
which evidences for the more expressivity of adenovirus genome in these cells.


PMID: 9813890  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3518. J Biol Chem. 1998 Nov 20;273(47):31352-7.

Cloning and expression of a novel dominant-negative-acting estrogen response
element-binding protein in the heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein family.

Chen H(1), Hu B, Gacad MA, Adams JS.

Author information: 
(1)Cedars-Sinai Burns and Allen Research Institute, Harbor-UCLA Medical Center,
UCLA School of Medicine, Los Angeles, California 90048, USA.

Most genera of New World primates exhibit a compensated form of resistance to
steroid hormones produced by the adrenal gland, gonads, and kidney. Estrogen
resistance in New World primate cells is associated with the relative
overexpression of a nonreceptor-related estrogen response element-binding protein
(ERE-BP) that competes with estrogen receptor for ERE binding. Using the
concatamerized ERE half-site (AGGTCAcag) in DNA affinity chromatography, we
purified to homogeneity a 40-42-kDa ERE-BP. The affinity-purified ERE-BP bound
specifically to either single- or double-stranded DNA bearing the consensus ERE
half-site motif AGGTCA. Four distinct internal tryptic peptides from this protein
were generated and shown to exhibit sequence similarity to proteins in the
heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein family. These tryptic peptide fragments
were used to generate a series of degenerate oligonucleotides that were
successfully employed in isolating a full-length ERE-BP cDNA by polymerase chain 
reaction. Although a member of a family of proteins generally recognized for
their ability to bind single strand RNA, the estrogen resistance-associated
protein ERE-BP can effectively bind double strand DNA and competitively squelch
estrogen receptor-directed transactivation.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.273.47.31352 
PMID: 9813044  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

