

3518. J Biol Chem. 1998 Nov 20;273(47):31352-7.

Cloning and expression of a novel dominant-negative-acting estrogen response
element-binding protein in the heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein family.

Chen H(1), Hu B, Gacad MA, Adams JS.

Author information: 
(1)Cedars-Sinai Burns and Allen Research Institute, Harbor-UCLA Medical Center,
UCLA School of Medicine, Los Angeles, California 90048, USA.

Most genera of New World primates exhibit a compensated form of resistance to
steroid hormones produced by the adrenal gland, gonads, and kidney. Estrogen
resistance in New World primate cells is associated with the relative
overexpression of a nonreceptor-related estrogen response element-binding protein
(ERE-BP) that competes with estrogen receptor for ERE binding. Using the
concatamerized ERE half-site (AGGTCAcag) in DNA affinity chromatography, we
purified to homogeneity a 40-42-kDa ERE-BP. The affinity-purified ERE-BP bound
specifically to either single- or double-stranded DNA bearing the consensus ERE
half-site motif AGGTCA. Four distinct internal tryptic peptides from this protein
were generated and shown to exhibit sequence similarity to proteins in the
heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein family. These tryptic peptide fragments
were used to generate a series of degenerate oligonucleotides that were
successfully employed in isolating a full-length ERE-BP cDNA by polymerase chain 
reaction. Although a member of a family of proteins generally recognized for
their ability to bind single strand RNA, the estrogen resistance-associated
protein ERE-BP can effectively bind double strand DNA and competitively squelch
estrogen receptor-directed transactivation.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.273.47.31352 
PMID: 9813044  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3519. Zhonghua Yu Fang Yi Xue Za Zhi. 1997 Sep;31(5):260-2.

[Experimental in vivo passage of H2 strain of live attenuated vaccine of
hepatitis A in common marmosets].

[Article in Chinese]

Huang X(1), Lian Y, Wang Q.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Medical Biology, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, Peking
Union Medical College, Kunming.

Common marmosets with negative serum antibodies against hepatitis A virus
(anti-HAV) and normal liver functions were used for the tests of passage of H2
vaccine strain of HAV to explore its residual virulence after attenuation and
possibility of its reversion. Common marmosets were inoculated with attenuated
live vaccine, and fecal suspension and/or proliferative liquid in tissue culture 
of the progeny of vaccine HAV excreted from their feces were passaged in common
marmosets. Result of three serial passages in vivo indicated that there was no
significant difference in serum anti-HAV titer, and no or low-level changes in
activities of liver enzymes, no pathological changes in liver tissues observed,
and detectable but minimal HAV was shed in stool of the all animals.


PMID: 9812599  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

