

3519. Zhonghua Yu Fang Yi Xue Za Zhi. 1997 Sep;31(5):260-2.

[Experimental in vivo passage of H2 strain of live attenuated vaccine of
hepatitis A in common marmosets].

[Article in Chinese]

Huang X(1), Lian Y, Wang Q.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Medical Biology, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, Peking
Union Medical College, Kunming.

Common marmosets with negative serum antibodies against hepatitis A virus
(anti-HAV) and normal liver functions were used for the tests of passage of H2
vaccine strain of HAV to explore its residual virulence after attenuation and
possibility of its reversion. Common marmosets were inoculated with attenuated
live vaccine, and fecal suspension and/or proliferative liquid in tissue culture 
of the progeny of vaccine HAV excreted from their feces were passaged in common
marmosets. Result of three serial passages in vivo indicated that there was no
significant difference in serum anti-HAV titer, and no or low-level changes in
activities of liver enzymes, no pathological changes in liver tissues observed,
and detectable but minimal HAV was shed in stool of the all animals.


PMID: 9812599  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3520. Exp Brain Res. 1998 Oct;122(3):351-61.

Pharmacologically evoked fictive motor patterns in the acutely spinalized
marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus).

Fedirchuk B(1), Nielsen J, Petersen N, Hultborn H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, Canada.
brent@scrc.umanitoba.ca

The existence of a spinal network capable of generating rhythmic alternating
activity resembling locomotion still has not been firmly established in primates,
including man, although evidence for one is accumulating. The present study
investigated whether it is possible to activate such a network by administration 
of a variety of pharmacological agents to acutely spinalized marmoset monkeys
(Callithrix jacchus) in the absence of phasic afferent input to the spinal cord. 
Fourteen marmoset monkeys were decerebrated, spinalized, and paralyzed. The
nerves supplying both hindlimbs were cut and recorded from. In 5 monkeys the
effect of electrical stimulation of the brainstem was investigated before
spinalization. In 3 of these monkeys, rhythmic activity alternating between
extensors and flexor nerves was seen. In the 2 other monkeys only synchronized
activity was elicited. In acutely spinalized monkeys, administration of
L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-dopa; 3-4 h after treatment with nialamide)
failed to evoke any rhythmic alternating activity. In contrast, administration of
clonidine elicited alternating activity in all of 8 monkeys tested. In 4 of these
monkeys, the activity was restricted to alternation between ipsilateral and
contralateral flexor nerves, whereas alternating activity between ipsilateral
flexors and extensors was also seen in the other 4 monkeys. Administration of
excitatory amino acids (NMDA or NMA) also elicited rhythmic alternating activity 
in 7 of 10 spinalized monkeys. In 4, rhythmic alternating activity was seen
between extensors and flexors on one limb as well as between ipsilateral and
contralateral flexors. In 3 monkeys NMDA/NMA produced alternation between
extensors and flexors of one limb without alternation between the ipsilateral and
contralateral sides. Administration of noradrenaline failed to elicit any
rhythmic activity, but rather completely depressed already existing activity.
Administration of serotonin (5-HT) was ineffective in facilitating alternating
activity in 6 of 8 monkeys and was facilitatory to rhythmic activity in the other
2. We suggest that these data provide further evidence of a network capable of
eliciting rhythmic alternating activity resembling locomotion in the primate
spinal cord. The network, however, seems to be more difficult to activate
pharmacologically in those conditions than in other mammals. This may especially 
be the case in higher primates, including man.

DOI: 10.1007/s002210050523 
PMID: 9808308  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

