

3520. Exp Brain Res. 1998 Oct;122(3):351-61.

Pharmacologically evoked fictive motor patterns in the acutely spinalized
marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus).

Fedirchuk B(1), Nielsen J, Petersen N, Hultborn H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, Canada.
brent@scrc.umanitoba.ca

The existence of a spinal network capable of generating rhythmic alternating
activity resembling locomotion still has not been firmly established in primates,
including man, although evidence for one is accumulating. The present study
investigated whether it is possible to activate such a network by administration 
of a variety of pharmacological agents to acutely spinalized marmoset monkeys
(Callithrix jacchus) in the absence of phasic afferent input to the spinal cord. 
Fourteen marmoset monkeys were decerebrated, spinalized, and paralyzed. The
nerves supplying both hindlimbs were cut and recorded from. In 5 monkeys the
effect of electrical stimulation of the brainstem was investigated before
spinalization. In 3 of these monkeys, rhythmic activity alternating between
extensors and flexor nerves was seen. In the 2 other monkeys only synchronized
activity was elicited. In acutely spinalized monkeys, administration of
L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-dopa; 3-4 h after treatment with nialamide)
failed to evoke any rhythmic alternating activity. In contrast, administration of
clonidine elicited alternating activity in all of 8 monkeys tested. In 4 of these
monkeys, the activity was restricted to alternation between ipsilateral and
contralateral flexor nerves, whereas alternating activity between ipsilateral
flexors and extensors was also seen in the other 4 monkeys. Administration of
excitatory amino acids (NMDA or NMA) also elicited rhythmic alternating activity 
in 7 of 10 spinalized monkeys. In 4, rhythmic alternating activity was seen
between extensors and flexors on one limb as well as between ipsilateral and
contralateral flexors. In 3 monkeys NMDA/NMA produced alternation between
extensors and flexors of one limb without alternation between the ipsilateral and
contralateral sides. Administration of noradrenaline failed to elicit any
rhythmic activity, but rather completely depressed already existing activity.
Administration of serotonin (5-HT) was ineffective in facilitating alternating
activity in 6 of 8 monkeys and was facilitatory to rhythmic activity in the other
2. We suggest that these data provide further evidence of a network capable of
eliciting rhythmic alternating activity resembling locomotion in the primate
spinal cord. The network, however, seems to be more difficult to activate
pharmacologically in those conditions than in other mammals. This may especially 
be the case in higher primates, including man.

DOI: 10.1007/s002210050523 
PMID: 9808308  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3521. Lab Anim. 1998 Oct;32(4):427-33.

Assessment of cage use by laboratory-bred common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Ely A, Freer A, Windle C, Ridley RM.

The way in which breeding families of laboratory-born marmosets used the space
provided by their cages, and a small protruding 'veranda', was assessed in order 
to determine the popularity of the veranda as a form of environmental enrichment,
and the extent to which the marmosets confined themselves to only part of the
cage. The veranda was found to be of enduring interest to the marmosets whose
occupancy of this space was an order of magnitude greater than the rest of the
cage. The upper part of the cage was preferred to the bottom half. This
preference was greater in larger cages and decreased when larger cages were
temporarily reduced in size. It is unlikely, however, that the distribution of
the occupancy of different parts of the cage resulted primarily from a fear of
people in the holding room. The veranda, which was the most preferred place in
the cage, was the nearest part of the cage to people in the room. Occupancy of
the lower part of the cage increased when human observers sat on the floor,
suggesting that some of the marmosets' behaviour comprised approaching, rather
than avoiding, the observers, possibly for reasons of curiosity and social
interaction.

DOI: 10.1258/002367798780599857 
PMID: 9807756  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

