

3521. Lab Anim. 1998 Oct;32(4):427-33.

Assessment of cage use by laboratory-bred common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Ely A, Freer A, Windle C, Ridley RM.

The way in which breeding families of laboratory-born marmosets used the space
provided by their cages, and a small protruding 'veranda', was assessed in order 
to determine the popularity of the veranda as a form of environmental enrichment,
and the extent to which the marmosets confined themselves to only part of the
cage. The veranda was found to be of enduring interest to the marmosets whose
occupancy of this space was an order of magnitude greater than the rest of the
cage. The upper part of the cage was preferred to the bottom half. This
preference was greater in larger cages and decreased when larger cages were
temporarily reduced in size. It is unlikely, however, that the distribution of
the occupancy of different parts of the cage resulted primarily from a fear of
people in the holding room. The veranda, which was the most preferred place in
the cage, was the nearest part of the cage to people in the room. Occupancy of
the lower part of the cage increased when human observers sat on the floor,
suggesting that some of the marmosets' behaviour comprised approaching, rather
than avoiding, the observers, possibly for reasons of curiosity and social
interaction.

DOI: 10.1258/002367798780599857 
PMID: 9807756  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3522. Hum Reprod. 1998 Sep;13(9):2645-53.

Expression and immunolocalization of the oxytocin receptor in human lactating and
non-lactating mammary glands.

Kimura T(1), Ito Y, Einspanier A, Tohya K, Nobunaga T, Tokugawa Y, Takemura M,
Kubota Y, Ivell R, Matsuura N, Saji F, Murata Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Osaka University Medical School,
Suita, Japan.

The milk ejection reflex is mediated by the release of pituitary oxytocin and its
interaction with specific receptors within the mammary gland. Although
up-regulation of the oxytocin receptor during lactation has been shown for the
rat mammary gland by ligand binding assay, investigation of the receptor
expression in human breast at the molecular level has not yet been carried out in
detail. Here we report the expression and immunolocalization of the oxytocin
receptor in the human breast. It appears that the expression level of the
receptor-specific mRNA is not significantly elevated during lactation and the
protein remains at a relatively low level. However, this lack of increase may be 
only a dilution effect because of the high level of milk protein expression.
Immunohistochemistry and immunoelectron microscopy using three anti-oxytocin
receptor antibodies raised against different epitopes of the receptor indicated
the presence of receptor immunoreactivity only to a very limited extent in the
myoepithelial cells; more specific expression appeared to occur in the
ductal/glandular epithelium in both the non-lactating as well as lactating
breast. This finding was also confirmed in a New World monkey, the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). These results suggest that, at least for human and
marmoset, in addition to--or even instead of--myoid cells, the ductal/glandular
epithelium is also a target for oxytocin action, not only during lactation but
also in the non-lactating breast. Thus, there may be other physiological effects 
of oxytocin besides direct myoid cell contraction in the breast.

DOI: 10.1093/humrep/13.9.2645 
PMID: 9806301  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

