

3522. Hum Reprod. 1998 Sep;13(9):2645-53.

Expression and immunolocalization of the oxytocin receptor in human lactating and
non-lactating mammary glands.

Kimura T(1), Ito Y, Einspanier A, Tohya K, Nobunaga T, Tokugawa Y, Takemura M,
Kubota Y, Ivell R, Matsuura N, Saji F, Murata Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Osaka University Medical School,
Suita, Japan.

The milk ejection reflex is mediated by the release of pituitary oxytocin and its
interaction with specific receptors within the mammary gland. Although
up-regulation of the oxytocin receptor during lactation has been shown for the
rat mammary gland by ligand binding assay, investigation of the receptor
expression in human breast at the molecular level has not yet been carried out in
detail. Here we report the expression and immunolocalization of the oxytocin
receptor in the human breast. It appears that the expression level of the
receptor-specific mRNA is not significantly elevated during lactation and the
protein remains at a relatively low level. However, this lack of increase may be 
only a dilution effect because of the high level of milk protein expression.
Immunohistochemistry and immunoelectron microscopy using three anti-oxytocin
receptor antibodies raised against different epitopes of the receptor indicated
the presence of receptor immunoreactivity only to a very limited extent in the
myoepithelial cells; more specific expression appeared to occur in the
ductal/glandular epithelium in both the non-lactating as well as lactating
breast. This finding was also confirmed in a New World monkey, the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). These results suggest that, at least for human and
marmoset, in addition to--or even instead of--myoid cells, the ductal/glandular
epithelium is also a target for oxytocin action, not only during lactation but
also in the non-lactating breast. Thus, there may be other physiological effects 
of oxytocin besides direct myoid cell contraction in the breast.

DOI: 10.1093/humrep/13.9.2645 
PMID: 9806301  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3523. Life Sci. 1998;63(18):1629-42.

A comparison of sensory nerve function in human, guinea-pig, rabbit and marmoset 
airways.

Spina D(1), Matera GM, Riccio MM, Page CP.

Author information: 
(1)The Sackler Institute of Pulmonary Pharmacology, Department of Respiratory
Medicine, King's College School of Medicine and Dentistry, London, UK.

We have investigated the role of sensory nerves in regulating airway smooth
muscle function in the guinea-pig, marmoset, rabbit and man. Tissue levels of the
sensory neuropeptides CGRP and substance P in the airways of the guinea-pig were 
significantly greater compared with the rabbit and marmoset. The relative order
of tissue content was guinea-pig >>> rabbit = marmoset. Marmoset bronchial and
tracheal preparations responded weakly to exogenously administered substance P
and neurokinin A but contracted to methacholine and demonstrated
atropine-sensitive cholinergic responses. In marmoset, rabbit and human airway
preparations, capsaicin mediated weak contractile responses to exogenously
administered capsaicin. However, high concentrations of capsaicin elicited a
relaxation response that was epithelium-independent, cyclo-oxygenase-insensitive,
not involving nitric oxide and not dependent on the activation of
capsaicin-sensitive afferents. These results suggest that rabbit and marmoset
airways respond functionally in a similar way to human airway preparations and
maybe more relevant than guinea-pig airways with regard to understanding the role
of sensory neuropeptides in airways.

DOI: 10.1016/s0024-3205(98)00432-9 
PMID: 9806216  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

