

3523. Life Sci. 1998;63(18):1629-42.

A comparison of sensory nerve function in human, guinea-pig, rabbit and marmoset 
airways.

Spina D(1), Matera GM, Riccio MM, Page CP.

Author information: 
(1)The Sackler Institute of Pulmonary Pharmacology, Department of Respiratory
Medicine, King's College School of Medicine and Dentistry, London, UK.

We have investigated the role of sensory nerves in regulating airway smooth
muscle function in the guinea-pig, marmoset, rabbit and man. Tissue levels of the
sensory neuropeptides CGRP and substance P in the airways of the guinea-pig were 
significantly greater compared with the rabbit and marmoset. The relative order
of tissue content was guinea-pig >>> rabbit = marmoset. Marmoset bronchial and
tracheal preparations responded weakly to exogenously administered substance P
and neurokinin A but contracted to methacholine and demonstrated
atropine-sensitive cholinergic responses. In marmoset, rabbit and human airway
preparations, capsaicin mediated weak contractile responses to exogenously
administered capsaicin. However, high concentrations of capsaicin elicited a
relaxation response that was epithelium-independent, cyclo-oxygenase-insensitive,
not involving nitric oxide and not dependent on the activation of
capsaicin-sensitive afferents. These results suggest that rabbit and marmoset
airways respond functionally in a similar way to human airway preparations and
maybe more relevant than guinea-pig airways with regard to understanding the role
of sensory neuropeptides in airways.

DOI: 10.1016/s0024-3205(98)00432-9 
PMID: 9806216  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3524. Am J Primatol. 1998;46(3):197-211.

Primate diversity, habitat preferences, and population density estimates in Noel 
Kempff Mercado National Park, Santa Cruz Department, Bolivia.

Wallace RB(1), Painter RL, Taber AB.

Author information: 
(1)Wildlife Conservation Society, Bronx, New York, USA. marimono@liverpool.ac.uk

This report documents primate communities at two sites within Noel Kempff Mercado
National Park in northeastern Santa Cruz Department, Bolivia. Diurnal line
transects and incidental observations were employed to survey two field sites,
Lago Caiman and Las Gamas, providing information on primate diversity, habitat
preferences, relative abundance, and population density. Primate diversity at
both sites was not particularly high, with six observed species: Callithrix
argentata melanura, Aotus azarae, Cebus apella, Alouatta caraya, A. seniculus,
and Ateles paniscus chamek. Cebus showed no significant habitat preferences at
Lago Caiman and was also more generalist in use of forest strata, whereas Ateles 
clearly preferred the upper levels of structurally tall forest. Callithrix
argentata melanura was rarely encountered during surveys at Lago Caiman, where it
preferred low vine forest. Both species of Alouatta showed restricted habitat use
and were sympatric in Igapo forest in the Lago Caiman area. The most abundant
primate at both field sites was Ateles, with density estimates reaching 32.1
individuals/km2 in the lowland forest at Lago Caiman, compared to 14.1
individuals/km2 for Cebus. Both Ateles and Cebus were absent from smaller patches
of gallery forest at Las Gamas. These densities are compared with estimates from 
other Neotropical sites. The diversity of habitats and their different floristic 
composition may account for the numerical dominance of Ateles within the primate 
communities at both sites.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1098-2345(1998)46:3<197::AID-AJP2>3.0.CO;2-7 
PMID: 9802511  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

