

3524. Am J Primatol. 1998;46(3):197-211.

Primate diversity, habitat preferences, and population density estimates in Noel 
Kempff Mercado National Park, Santa Cruz Department, Bolivia.

Wallace RB(1), Painter RL, Taber AB.

Author information: 
(1)Wildlife Conservation Society, Bronx, New York, USA. marimono@liverpool.ac.uk

This report documents primate communities at two sites within Noel Kempff Mercado
National Park in northeastern Santa Cruz Department, Bolivia. Diurnal line
transects and incidental observations were employed to survey two field sites,
Lago Caiman and Las Gamas, providing information on primate diversity, habitat
preferences, relative abundance, and population density. Primate diversity at
both sites was not particularly high, with six observed species: Callithrix
argentata melanura, Aotus azarae, Cebus apella, Alouatta caraya, A. seniculus,
and Ateles paniscus chamek. Cebus showed no significant habitat preferences at
Lago Caiman and was also more generalist in use of forest strata, whereas Ateles 
clearly preferred the upper levels of structurally tall forest. Callithrix
argentata melanura was rarely encountered during surveys at Lago Caiman, where it
preferred low vine forest. Both species of Alouatta showed restricted habitat use
and were sympatric in Igapo forest in the Lago Caiman area. The most abundant
primate at both field sites was Ateles, with density estimates reaching 32.1
individuals/km2 in the lowland forest at Lago Caiman, compared to 14.1
individuals/km2 for Cebus. Both Ateles and Cebus were absent from smaller patches
of gallery forest at Las Gamas. These densities are compared with estimates from 
other Neotropical sites. The diversity of habitats and their different floristic 
composition may account for the numerical dominance of Ateles within the primate 
communities at both sites.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1098-2345(1998)46:3<197::AID-AJP2>3.0.CO;2-7 
PMID: 9802511  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3525. Am J Primatol. 1998;46(3):187-96.

Cutting costs in response to predatory threat by Geoffroy's marmosets (Callithrix
geoffroyi).

Caine NG(1).

Author information: 
(1)Psychology Department, California State University, San Marcos 92096, USA.
ncaine@coyote.csusm.edu

Ideally, prey should respond to their predators efficiently, without over- or
underreacting to the threat. This may be particularly important for small-bodied 
species for whom metabolic demands are high and predatory risk is great. In the
current study, two family groups of Callithrix geoffroyi living outside in a
rural setting at the Center for Reproduction of Endangered Species, San Diego
Wild Animal Park, were observed before, during, and after ten presentations of a 
great horned owl model. The owl was mounted on a post on a nearby hillside,
simulating a situation in which a real but nonimminent threat is posed. As
controls, a model of a crow and a cloth bag were also presented, each for ten
trials. During the 10 min presentations of the owl, rates of play and foraging
decreased, and rates of locomotion and vigilant looking increased from baseline
rates. Data on occupation of the best viewing area suggest that the marmosets
shared the job of monitoring a potential threat. After the owl was removed,
behavior quickly returned to baseline rates, with the exception of looking at the
place where the owl had been, and play. Neither the bag nor the crow generated
significant differences from the baseline condition that preceded it. Marmosets
may reduce the costs of antipredator behavior by appropriately assessing the
degree of risk and by quickly resuming important activities once a potential
threat has passed.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1098-2345(1998)46:3<187::AID-AJP1>3.0.CO;2-B 
PMID: 9802510  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

