

3525. Am J Primatol. 1998;46(3):187-96.

Cutting costs in response to predatory threat by Geoffroy's marmosets (Callithrix
geoffroyi).

Caine NG(1).

Author information: 
(1)Psychology Department, California State University, San Marcos 92096, USA.
ncaine@coyote.csusm.edu

Ideally, prey should respond to their predators efficiently, without over- or
underreacting to the threat. This may be particularly important for small-bodied 
species for whom metabolic demands are high and predatory risk is great. In the
current study, two family groups of Callithrix geoffroyi living outside in a
rural setting at the Center for Reproduction of Endangered Species, San Diego
Wild Animal Park, were observed before, during, and after ten presentations of a 
great horned owl model. The owl was mounted on a post on a nearby hillside,
simulating a situation in which a real but nonimminent threat is posed. As
controls, a model of a crow and a cloth bag were also presented, each for ten
trials. During the 10 min presentations of the owl, rates of play and foraging
decreased, and rates of locomotion and vigilant looking increased from baseline
rates. Data on occupation of the best viewing area suggest that the marmosets
shared the job of monitoring a potential threat. After the owl was removed,
behavior quickly returned to baseline rates, with the exception of looking at the
place where the owl had been, and play. Neither the bag nor the crow generated
significant differences from the baseline condition that preceded it. Marmosets
may reduce the costs of antipredator behavior by appropriately assessing the
degree of risk and by quickly resuming important activities once a potential
threat has passed.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1098-2345(1998)46:3<187::AID-AJP1>3.0.CO;2-B 
PMID: 9802510  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3526. Nihon Shinkei Seishin Yakurigaku Zasshi. 1998 Jun;18(3):81-7.

[Dermal application of lisuride on parkinsonism induced by
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) in the common marmoset and on
cases with Parkinson's disease].

[Article in Japanese]

Nomoto M(1), Iwata S, Irifune M, Kaseda S, Osame M, Fukuda T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Kagoshima University School of Medicine, Japan.

Dermal administration is a nonoral drug delivery system that can keep the
concentration of a drug in the body at a proper level for a long time. This is
suitable especially in patients in the advanced stages of Parkinson's disease
with a wearing-off phenomenon (short duration of effects on antiparkinsonian
drugs), or in postoperative patients who cannot be treated with oral
administration. We studied the effects of lisuride, a dopamine receptor agonist, 
in the dermal application on MPTP-treated common marmosets and on 5 patients with
Parkinson's disease. Lisuride was applied to 4 x 5 cm of skin of the abdomen of
monkeys. In patients with Parkinson's disease, lisuride was applied to the skin
of the chest. The agent reversed akinesia of MPTP-treated animals within 30 min
following the application and relieved the animal of parkinsonism for 5 days at a
dose of 2 mg/kg. In patients, the dermal application of lisuride increased the
duration of the ON period at doses of 1 to 2 mg/kg. These results suggest that
the dermal application of lisuride is a useful treatment in parkinsonism.


PMID: 9800199  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

