

3526. Nihon Shinkei Seishin Yakurigaku Zasshi. 1998 Jun;18(3):81-7.

[Dermal application of lisuride on parkinsonism induced by
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) in the common marmoset and on
cases with Parkinson's disease].

[Article in Japanese]

Nomoto M(1), Iwata S, Irifune M, Kaseda S, Osame M, Fukuda T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Kagoshima University School of Medicine, Japan.

Dermal administration is a nonoral drug delivery system that can keep the
concentration of a drug in the body at a proper level for a long time. This is
suitable especially in patients in the advanced stages of Parkinson's disease
with a wearing-off phenomenon (short duration of effects on antiparkinsonian
drugs), or in postoperative patients who cannot be treated with oral
administration. We studied the effects of lisuride, a dopamine receptor agonist, 
in the dermal application on MPTP-treated common marmosets and on 5 patients with
Parkinson's disease. Lisuride was applied to 4 x 5 cm of skin of the abdomen of
monkeys. In patients with Parkinson's disease, lisuride was applied to the skin
of the chest. The agent reversed akinesia of MPTP-treated animals within 30 min
following the application and relieved the animal of parkinsonism for 5 days at a
dose of 2 mg/kg. In patients, the dermal application of lisuride increased the
duration of the ON period at doses of 1 to 2 mg/kg. These results suggest that
the dermal application of lisuride is a useful treatment in parkinsonism.


PMID: 9800199  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3527. Res Microbiol. 1998 Sep;149(8):585-94.

Bacteriocin production by Fusobacterium isolates recovered from the oral cavity
of human subjects with and without periodontal disease and of marmosets.

Oliveira AA(1), Farias LM, Nicoli JR, Costa JE, Carvalho MA.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Microbiologia Oral e Anaeróbios, Universidade Federal de Minas 
Gerais, Belo Horizonte, Brazil.

Bacteriocin production has been studied in very few anaerobic bacteria, and no
report is available for Fusobacterium species. In the present study a total of
167 Fusobacterium isolates were tested for bacteriocin production: 70 isolates
were obtained from the oral cavity of patients with periodontal disease, 47 were 
recovered from healthy oral sites of human subjects and 50 from the oral cavity
of Callithrix penicillata. Autoantagonism and isoantagonism were observed when
the bacteriocin-producing isolates were tested against themselves.
Heteroantagonism was detected by testing the Fusobacterium isolates against 14
reference strains and 2 strains of Actinobacillus actinomycetemcomitans from our 
laboratory collection. The auto-, iso- and heteroantagonism phenomena observed in
this comparative study suggest a possible ecological role for this (these)
antagonistic substance(s) in the oral environment.

DOI: 10.1016/s0923-2508(99)80006-0 
PMID: 9795996  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

