

3527. Res Microbiol. 1998 Sep;149(8):585-94.

Bacteriocin production by Fusobacterium isolates recovered from the oral cavity
of human subjects with and without periodontal disease and of marmosets.

Oliveira AA(1), Farias LM, Nicoli JR, Costa JE, Carvalho MA.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Microbiologia Oral e Anaeróbios, Universidade Federal de Minas 
Gerais, Belo Horizonte, Brazil.

Bacteriocin production has been studied in very few anaerobic bacteria, and no
report is available for Fusobacterium species. In the present study a total of
167 Fusobacterium isolates were tested for bacteriocin production: 70 isolates
were obtained from the oral cavity of patients with periodontal disease, 47 were 
recovered from healthy oral sites of human subjects and 50 from the oral cavity
of Callithrix penicillata. Autoantagonism and isoantagonism were observed when
the bacteriocin-producing isolates were tested against themselves.
Heteroantagonism was detected by testing the Fusobacterium isolates against 14
reference strains and 2 strains of Actinobacillus actinomycetemcomitans from our 
laboratory collection. The auto-, iso- and heteroantagonism phenomena observed in
this comparative study suggest a possible ecological role for this (these)
antagonistic substance(s) in the oral environment.

DOI: 10.1016/s0923-2508(99)80006-0 
PMID: 9795996  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3528. J Vet Med Sci. 1998 Sep;60(9):1005-11.

Lectin-binding patterns in the olfactory epithelium and vomeronasal organ of the 
common marmoset.

Nakajima T(1), Shiratori K, Ogawa K, Tanioka Y, Taniguchi K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Veterinary Anatomy, Faculty of Agriculture, Iwate University,
Japan.

The patterns of expression of sugar residues in the olfactory epithelium and
vomeronasal organ of the common marmoset were studied lectin-histochemically.
Eight lectins including DBA, BSL-I, RCA-I, s-WGA, PNA, ECL, UEA-I and Con A bound
to the free border of the olfactory epithelium, and 6 lectins including DBA,
RCA-I, s-WGA, PNA, ECL and UEA-I bound to that of the vomeronasal organ. UEA-I
bound to all dendrites of the olfactory receptor cells, and 6 lectins including
BSL-I, RCA-I, s-WGA, PNA, ECL and Con A bound to only a part of dendrites of the 
olfactory receptor cells. ECL and UEA-I bound to all dendrites of the vomeronasal
receptor cells, and s-WGA, PNA and Con A bound to only a part of dendrites of the
vomeronasal receptor cells. Seven lectins including RCA-I, s-WGA, BSL-II, PNA,
ECL, UEA-I and Con A bound to all the olfactory receptor cell bodies, and BSL-I
bound to only a part of them. Six lectins including RCA-I, s-WGA, PNA, ECL, UEA-I
and Con A bound to all the vomeronasal receptor cell bodies, and BSL-II bound to 
only a part of them. These results showed that a smaller number of lectins bound 
to the free border, dendrites and cell bodies of the receptor cells in the
vomeronasal organ than those in the olfactory epithelium, suggesting that the
vomeronasal organ is less active in some physiological functions with which sugar
residues are associated than the olfactory epithelium in the common marmoset.

DOI: 10.1292/jvms.60.1005 
PMID: 9795901  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

