

3528. J Vet Med Sci. 1998 Sep;60(9):1005-11.

Lectin-binding patterns in the olfactory epithelium and vomeronasal organ of the 
common marmoset.

Nakajima T(1), Shiratori K, Ogawa K, Tanioka Y, Taniguchi K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Veterinary Anatomy, Faculty of Agriculture, Iwate University,
Japan.

The patterns of expression of sugar residues in the olfactory epithelium and
vomeronasal organ of the common marmoset were studied lectin-histochemically.
Eight lectins including DBA, BSL-I, RCA-I, s-WGA, PNA, ECL, UEA-I and Con A bound
to the free border of the olfactory epithelium, and 6 lectins including DBA,
RCA-I, s-WGA, PNA, ECL and UEA-I bound to that of the vomeronasal organ. UEA-I
bound to all dendrites of the olfactory receptor cells, and 6 lectins including
BSL-I, RCA-I, s-WGA, PNA, ECL and Con A bound to only a part of dendrites of the 
olfactory receptor cells. ECL and UEA-I bound to all dendrites of the vomeronasal
receptor cells, and s-WGA, PNA and Con A bound to only a part of dendrites of the
vomeronasal receptor cells. Seven lectins including RCA-I, s-WGA, BSL-II, PNA,
ECL, UEA-I and Con A bound to all the olfactory receptor cell bodies, and BSL-I
bound to only a part of them. Six lectins including RCA-I, s-WGA, PNA, ECL, UEA-I
and Con A bound to all the vomeronasal receptor cell bodies, and BSL-II bound to 
only a part of them. These results showed that a smaller number of lectins bound 
to the free border, dendrites and cell bodies of the receptor cells in the
vomeronasal organ than those in the olfactory epithelium, suggesting that the
vomeronasal organ is less active in some physiological functions with which sugar
residues are associated than the olfactory epithelium in the common marmoset.

DOI: 10.1292/jvms.60.1005 
PMID: 9795901  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3529. J Endocrinol. 1998 Oct;159(1):141-51.

Expression, characterisation and immunoassay of recombinant marmoset chorionic
gonadotrophin dimer and beta-subunit.

Amato F(1), Simula AP, Gameau LJ, Norman RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Reproductive Medicine Unit, Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology,
University of Adelaide, The Queen Elizabeth Hospital, Adelaide, South Australia, 
Australia.

A specific and sensitive ELISA for measuring marmoset chorionic gonadotrophin
(mCG) in culture medium, urine and plasma was developed using a polyclonal
antibody raised against recombinant mCG, tagged with six histidine molecules
(rmCG-6His), as the capture antibody. A well-characterised monoclonal antibody
(518B7), which was generated against bovine luteinising hormone (bLH) and has
been shown to detect CG and LH in Callithrichid monkeys, was biotinylated and
used as the secondary antibody. Purified rmCG, calibrated against human CG (hCG; 
CR127) by bioassay, or the beta-subunit (rmCGbeta), quantified from amino acid
analysis and carbohydrate analysis, was used as the standard. The assay was able 
to detect CG activity in medium collected from cultured marmoset embryos before
attachment and through to the trophoblastic vesicle stage, plasma and urine
collected from pregnant marmosets, marmoset placenta and pituitary homogenates.
The assay was validated and its performance compared with a bioassay based on
MA10 cell response to CG, with hCG as the standard. The sensitivity was 103 pg/ml
(5 pg/well) of rmCGbeta and 476 pg/ml (24 pg/well) of the heterodimer rmCG. The
mean recovery of standard added to embryo culture medium, marmoset urine and
plasma was 104, 112 and 92% respectively. The intra- and interassay variation was
less than 10 and 16% respectively. The low cross-reactivity with cynomolgus
monkey and baboon LH, their beta-subunits, cynomolgus monkey and baboon
follicle-stimulating hormone and hCG suggests that the assay is specific for mCG.

DOI: 10.1677/joe.0.1590141 
PMID: 9795352  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

