

3534. Am J Primatol. 1998;46(2):105-17.

Diurnal variation on the excretion patterns of fecal steroids in common marmoset 
(Callithrix jacchus) females.

Sousa MB(1), Ziegler TE.

Author information: 
(1)Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, Brazil.
mdesousa@cb.ufrn.br

The use of fecal steroid analysis to assess gonadal and adrenal function in
primates has rapidly increased in recent years due to the ability to collect
feces from nonhuman primates living in wild conditions. These techniques offer an
exciting new potential for enhancing our knowledge of the endocrine status of
free-living animals. Prior to using these techniques under field conditions, it
is important to determine the diurnal variation of fecal excreted steroids for
assessing possible time limitations on fecal collections. The following study
investigates the diurnal frequency of defecation and patterns of steroid levels
excreted in feces from four female common marmosets, Callithrix jacchus, living
in a family group. These females represented three reproductive conditions: early
pregnancy, ovarian cycling, and noncycling (postpubertal). Cortisol, estradiol,
and progesterone were extracted and analyzed by enzyme immunoassay. Diurnal
variations in steroid levels were found by ANOVA for cortisol and progesterone
but not for estradiol. Significantly higher levels of cortisol were found in the 
afternoon, while the reverse was found for progesterone. All females showed the
same pattern of steroid level change, except for cortisol in the pregnant female.
Since all females defecated within the first hour after they awoke in the
morning, this time was determined to be the most effective time to collect feces.
The consistency of our findings reinforces the usefulness of this approach for
studying reproductive and adrenocortical function in marmosets and also indicates
that fecal collection should be limited to either morning or afternoon
collections.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1098-2345(1998)46:2<105::AID-AJP1>3.0.CO;2-# 
PMID: 9773674  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3535. Anim Reprod Sci. 1998 Aug 21;52(2):165-74.

Artificial insemination in Callithrix jacchus using fresh or cryopreserved sperm.

Morrell JM(1), Nubbemeyer R, Heistermann M, Rosenbusch J, Küderling I, Holt W,
Hodges JK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Reproductive Biology, German Primate Centre, Göttingen.

Assisted reproductive techniques are needed urgently to facilitate the captive
breeding of many New World primate species which are endangered in the wild and
to assist the effective genetic management of small colonies. A protocol was
devised for artificial insemination in the common marmoset, Callithrix jacchus,
using ejaculated sperm obtained by vaginal washing after copulation. A double
insemination protocol was employed, with the first insemination taking place the 
day before ovulation was expected to occur and the second 48 h later. All six
females inseminated with fresh ejaculated sperm became pregnant, delivering a
total of 16 offspring at term. The gestation lengths and litter sizes were not
statistically different from those observed in pregnancies following natural
mating. The insemination protocol was adapted for use with cryopreserved
ejaculated sperm by including an additional insemination on the day of expected
ovulation, to take into account differences in the capacitation time of
frozen-thawed sperm compared to fresh sperm. Three out of six females inseminated
according to this triple insemination schedule, conceived, although one female
subsequently resorbed twin foetuses approximately 100 days later. The remaining
two pregnant females delivered four babies at term, one singleton and one set of 
triplets. In the final group, six females were inseminated with low doses of
cryopreserved epididymal sperm using the same triple insemination protocol used
for frozen-thawed ejaculated sperm. One female conceived, delivering triplets.

DOI: 10.1016/s0378-4320(97)00092-4 
PMID: 9776489  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

