

3535. Anim Reprod Sci. 1998 Aug 21;52(2):165-74.

Artificial insemination in Callithrix jacchus using fresh or cryopreserved sperm.

Morrell JM(1), Nubbemeyer R, Heistermann M, Rosenbusch J, Küderling I, Holt W,
Hodges JK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Reproductive Biology, German Primate Centre, Göttingen.

Assisted reproductive techniques are needed urgently to facilitate the captive
breeding of many New World primate species which are endangered in the wild and
to assist the effective genetic management of small colonies. A protocol was
devised for artificial insemination in the common marmoset, Callithrix jacchus,
using ejaculated sperm obtained by vaginal washing after copulation. A double
insemination protocol was employed, with the first insemination taking place the 
day before ovulation was expected to occur and the second 48 h later. All six
females inseminated with fresh ejaculated sperm became pregnant, delivering a
total of 16 offspring at term. The gestation lengths and litter sizes were not
statistically different from those observed in pregnancies following natural
mating. The insemination protocol was adapted for use with cryopreserved
ejaculated sperm by including an additional insemination on the day of expected
ovulation, to take into account differences in the capacitation time of
frozen-thawed sperm compared to fresh sperm. Three out of six females inseminated
according to this triple insemination schedule, conceived, although one female
subsequently resorbed twin foetuses approximately 100 days later. The remaining
two pregnant females delivered four babies at term, one singleton and one set of 
triplets. In the final group, six females were inseminated with low doses of
cryopreserved epididymal sperm using the same triple insemination protocol used
for frozen-thawed ejaculated sperm. One female conceived, delivering triplets.

DOI: 10.1016/s0378-4320(97)00092-4 
PMID: 9776489  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3536. J Neurophysiol. 1998 Oct;80(4):2063-76.

Segregation of receptive field properties in the lateral geniculate nucleus of a 
New-World monkey, the marmoset Callithrix jacchus.

White AJ(1), Wilder HD, Goodchild AK, Sefton AJ, Martin PR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Institute for Biomedical Research, The University
of Sydney, New South Wales 2006, Australia.

The lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) in humans and Old-World monkeys is dominated
by the representation of the fovea in the parvocellular (PC) layers, and most PC 
cells in the foveal representation have red-green cone opponent receptive field
properties. It is not known whether these features are both unique to
trichromatic primates. Here we measured receptive field properties and the
visuotopic organization of cells in the LGN of a New-World monkey, the marmoset
Callithrix jacchus. The marmoset displays a polymorphism of cone opsins in the
medium-long wavelength (ML) range, which allows the LGN of dichromatic
("red-green color blind") and trichromatic individuals to be compared.
Furthermore, the koniocellular-interlaminar layers are segregated from the main
PC layers in marmoset, allowing the functional role of this subdivision of the
LGN to be assessed. We show that the representation of the visual field in the
LGN is quantitatively similar in dichromatic and trichromatic marmosets and is
similar to that reported for macaque; the vast majority of LGN volume is devoted 
to the central visual field. ON- and OFF-type responses are partially segregated 
in the PC layers so that responses are more commonly encountered near the
external border of each layer. The red-green (ML) opponent cells in trichromatic 
animals were all located in the PC layers, and their receptive fields were within
16 degrees of the fovea. The koniocellular zone between the PC and magnocellular 
layers contained cells that receive excitatory input from short wavelength
sensitive cones ("blue- cells") as well as other nonopponent cells. These results
suggest that the basic organization of the LGN is common to dichromatic and
trichromatic primates and provide further evidence that ML and SWS opponent
signals are carried in distinct subdivisions of the retinogeniculocortical
pathway.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.1998.80.4.2063 
PMID: 9772261  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

