

3544. Hum Reprod. 1998 Aug;13(8):2180-5.

Insulin-like growth factor binding protein-3 mRNA expression in endothelial cells
of the primate corpus luteum.

Fraser HM(1), Lunn SF, Kim H, Erickson GF.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Reproductive Biology Unit, Edinburgh, UK.

Luteinization is associated with endothelial cell proliferation as part of the
extensive angiogenesis necessary to maintain corpus luteum function. However,
following luteal demise, the vasculature regresses and the endothelial cells
disappear. In the rat corpus luteum, the endothelial cells express high
concentrations of insulin-like growth factor-binding protein-3 (IGFBP-3) during
luteolysis, suggesting a role of IGFBP-3 during endothelial cell loss. The aim of
the present study was to determine the occurrence and location of the messenger
ribonucleic acid (mRNA) for IGFBP-3 in the primate corpus luteum, and to
determine whether or not induction of luteal regression is associated with
changes in localization of the message. Marmoset corpora lutea were studied
throughout the cycle. The effects of induced luteolysis were examined 12 h or 24 
h after treatment with either a gonadotrophin-releasing hormone antagonist or a
prostaglandin F2alpha analogue, administered during the mid-luteal phase. High
IGFBP-3 expression was recorded in the endothelial cells of the majority of
microvessels and a minority of capillaries surrounding the lutein cells in all
functionally active corpora lutea. Expression declined markedly in regressing
corpora lutea of the late follicular phase. Expression of the IGFBP-3 mRNA in
lutein cells in the control corpus luteum was extremely rare. There were no major
differences in the degree and pattern of IGFBP-3 expression as a consequence of
induced luteal regression although there was an apparent increase in the number
of capillary endothelial cells expressing. Induction of luteolysis resulted in
expression in a minority of lutein cells. These results support the concept that 
IGFBP-3 has an autocrine/paracrine role in regulating various cell types in the
primate corpus luteum, including endothelial cells. However, expression of
IGFBP-3 mRNA throughout the luteal phase suggests it may regulate angiogenesis
and luteal function rather than endothelial cell death and luteolysis.

DOI: 10.1093/humrep/13.8.2180 
PMID: 9756293  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3545. Int J Immunopharmacol. 1998 Jul;20(7):345-57.

IL-6 functions in cynomolgus monkeys blocked by a humanized antibody to human
IL-6 receptor.

Imazeki I(1), Saito H, Hasegawa M, Shinkura H, Kishimoto T, Ohsugi Y.

Author information: 
(1)Fuji-Gotemba Research Laboratories, Chugai Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd, Tokyo,
Japan.

A humanized antibody to the human interleukin-6 receptor (IL-6R), hPM-1, blocked 
the interleukin-6 (IL-6) functions in normal cynomolgus monkey lymphocytes in
vitro. The binding activity of hPM-1 to non-human primate IL-6R was examined in
peripheral blood lymphocytes by flow cytometry. PM-1 recognized the IL-6R on T
lymphocytes of cynomolgus and rhesus monkeys, but did not on those of marmosets. 
The homology between human IL-6R and its cynomolgus monkey counterpart was 97.3% 
in the extracellular domain of the amino acid sequence, as determined by DNA
sequencing of the PCR product from peripheral blood mononuclear cells. PM-1
inhibited two functional parameters in vitro in cynomolgus monkeys: (1), T-cell
proliferation stimulated by phytohemaglutinin and human IL-6; (2), Immunoglobulin
G-production evoked by Staphylococcus aureus Cowan-1- and human IL-6-stimulated B
lymphocytes. These data show that hPM-1 binds to and functionally blocks the
cynomolgus monkey IL-6 receptors.

DOI: 10.1016/s0192-0561(98)00005-8 
PMID: 9756130  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

