

3547. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 1998 Sep 29;95(20):11745-50.

The common marmoset: a new world primate species with limited Mhc class II
variability.

Antunes SG(1), de Groot NG, Brok H, Doxiadis G, Menezes AA, Otting N, Bontrop RE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Lange Kleiweg
151, 2288 GJ Rijswijk, The Netherlands.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is a New World primate species that is
highly susceptible to fatal infections caused by various strains of bacteria. We 
present here a first step in the molecular characterization of the common
marmoset's Mhc class II genes by nucleotide sequence analysis of the polymorphic 
exon 2 segments. For this study, genetic material was obtained from animals bred 
in captivity as well as in the wild. The results demonstrate that the common
marmoset has, like other primates, apparently functional Mhc-DR and -DQ regions, 
but the Mhc-DP region has been inactivated. At the -DR and -DQ loci, only a
limited number of lineages were detected. On the basis of the number of alleles
found, the -DQA and -B loci appear to be oligomorphic, whereas only a moderate
degree of polymorphism was observed for two of three Mhc-DRB loci. The contact
residues in the peptide-binding site of the Caja-DRB1*03 lineage members are
highly conserved, whereas the -DRB*W16 lineage members show more divergence in
that respect. The latter locus encodes five oligomorphic lineages whose members
are not observed in any other primate species studied, suggesting rapid
evolution, as illustrated by frequent exchange of polymorphic motifs. All common 
marmosets tested were found to share one monomorphic type of Caja-DRB*W12 allele 
probably encoded by a separate locus. Common marmosets apparently lack haplotype 
polymorphism because the number of Caja-DRB loci present per haplotype appears to
be constant. Despite this, however, an unexpectedly high number of allelic
combinations are observed at the haplotypic level, suggesting that Caja-DRB
alleles are exchanged frequently between chromosomes by recombination, promoting 
an optimal distribution of limited Mhc polymorphisms among individuals of a given
population. This peculiar genetic make up, in combination with the limited
variability of the major histocompatability complex class II repertoire, may
contribute to the common marmoset's susceptibility to particular bacterial
infections.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.95.20.11745 
PMCID: PMC21711
PMID: 9751736  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3548. Eur J Neurosci. 1998 Feb;10(2):689-98.

Behavioural effects of subthalamic nucleus lesions in the hemiparkinsonian
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Henderson JM(1), Annett LE, Torres EM, Dunnett SB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology and the MRC Cambridge Centre for Brain
Repair, University of Cambridge, UK.

Recent studies in non-human primates support a role for the subthalamic nucleus
in the expression of parkinsonian symptomatology, and it has been proposed that
subthalamic lesions may provide a surgical treatment for the symptoms of
Parkinson's disease in humans. We have applied a broad range of behavioural tests
to characterize the effects of lesions of the subthalamic nucleus on parkinsonian
symptoms in the unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesioned marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus). Thirteen marmosets were trained on a battery of behavioural
tasks that were conducted at regular intervals before and after surgery. All
received unilateral 6-OHDA lesions to the medial forebrain bundle. Seven animals 
were then given an additional N-methyl-D-aspartate lesion of the ipsilateral
subthalamic nucleus, whereas the remaining six animals received a variety of
control or sham lesions to the nucleus. The 6-OHDA lesions induced a strong
ipsilateral bias in head position; mild-moderate ipsilateral rotation
spontaneously and after injection of saline or amphetamine; and contralateral
rotation after injection of apomorphine. Hemineglect was evident as delayed
initiation of reaches on the contralateral side on the staircase reaching task.
Additional subthalamic lesions significantly reversed the bias in head position
from ipsilateral to contralateral and decreased neglect as evidenced by improved 
latencies to initiate reaching on the contralateral side at the staircase.
However, deficits in skilled movements persisted in the subthalamic nucleus
lesion group in that they did not complete the staircase task any faster than the
control group and remained impaired on another task which required reaching into 
tubes. These behavioural effects demonstrate that excitotoxic lesioning of the
subthalamic nucleus can ameliorate some, but not all, parkinsonian-like deficits 
in the unilateral 6-OHDA lesioned marmoset.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1460-9568.1998.00077.x 
PMID: 9749730  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

