

3548. Eur J Neurosci. 1998 Feb;10(2):689-98.

Behavioural effects of subthalamic nucleus lesions in the hemiparkinsonian
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Henderson JM(1), Annett LE, Torres EM, Dunnett SB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology and the MRC Cambridge Centre for Brain
Repair, University of Cambridge, UK.

Recent studies in non-human primates support a role for the subthalamic nucleus
in the expression of parkinsonian symptomatology, and it has been proposed that
subthalamic lesions may provide a surgical treatment for the symptoms of
Parkinson's disease in humans. We have applied a broad range of behavioural tests
to characterize the effects of lesions of the subthalamic nucleus on parkinsonian
symptoms in the unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesioned marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus). Thirteen marmosets were trained on a battery of behavioural
tasks that were conducted at regular intervals before and after surgery. All
received unilateral 6-OHDA lesions to the medial forebrain bundle. Seven animals 
were then given an additional N-methyl-D-aspartate lesion of the ipsilateral
subthalamic nucleus, whereas the remaining six animals received a variety of
control or sham lesions to the nucleus. The 6-OHDA lesions induced a strong
ipsilateral bias in head position; mild-moderate ipsilateral rotation
spontaneously and after injection of saline or amphetamine; and contralateral
rotation after injection of apomorphine. Hemineglect was evident as delayed
initiation of reaches on the contralateral side on the staircase reaching task.
Additional subthalamic lesions significantly reversed the bias in head position
from ipsilateral to contralateral and decreased neglect as evidenced by improved 
latencies to initiate reaching on the contralateral side at the staircase.
However, deficits in skilled movements persisted in the subthalamic nucleus
lesion group in that they did not complete the staircase task any faster than the
control group and remained impaired on another task which required reaching into 
tubes. These behavioural effects demonstrate that excitotoxic lesioning of the
subthalamic nucleus can ameliorate some, but not all, parkinsonian-like deficits 
in the unilateral 6-OHDA lesioned marmoset.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1460-9568.1998.00077.x 
PMID: 9749730  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3549. Biochim Biophys Acta. 1998 Aug 28;1393(2-3):235-43.

An evaluation of the marmoset Callithrix jacchus (sagüi) as an experimental model
for the dyslipoproteinemia of human Schistosomiasis mansoni.

Lima VL(1), Sena VL, Stewart B, Owen JS, Dolphin PJ.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Bioquímica, Centro de Ciências Biológicas, Universidade
Federal de Pernambuco, Brazil.

Human infection with the parasite Schistosoma mansoni is a relatively common
occurrence in regions of South America and is associated with liver dysfunction
and dyslipoproteinemia. Specifically, the activity of plasma lecithin:cholesterol
acyltransferase (LCAT) activity is reduced, the concentration of plasma
cholesterol esters falls, phospholipid concentrations are elevated and
erythrocyte membranes become cholesterol enriched. Previous studies have utilized
rodents (rats and mice) as experimental models to study the dyslipoproteinemia
induced by S. mansoni infection. However, the plasma lipoprotein profiles in
these animals is very different from humans and infection is not accompanied by
decreases in LCAT activity or cholesterol enrichment of their erythrocyte
membranes. Here we have evaluated the suitability of the marmoset Callithrix
jacchus (sagüi) which is small and readily available in Brazil, as a potential
animal model for the study of the dyslipoproteinemia of S. mansoni infections.
The plasma lipoprotein compositions and distributions in sagüi, unlike rats or
mice, approximate those of man with the LDL representing a major lipoprotein
species. The molecular species of phospholipids, cholesterol esters and
triglycerides present in sagüi plasma are also very similar to man, whereas those
of rats and mice favor the longer chain more unsaturated species, Sagüi, like
rodents, can be successfully infected with S. mansoni and after 60 days, this
results in a 50% reduction in plasma LCAT activity, an 11% reduction in plasma
cholesterol esters, an absolute increase of 46% in plasma phospholipids and an
18% increase in the cholesterol content of erythrocyte membranes. These changes
are qualitatively and quantitatively very similar to those previously reported
following human infections. Based upon these changes, and the observation that
the plasma lipoprotein profile of sagüi and human is similar, we conclude that C.
jacchus (sagüi) is an appropriate animal model for the study of
dyslipoproteinemia associated with S. mansoni infections.

DOI: 10.1016/s0005-2760(98)00076-9 
PMID: 9748601  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

