

3549. Biochim Biophys Acta. 1998 Aug 28;1393(2-3):235-43.

An evaluation of the marmoset Callithrix jacchus (sagüi) as an experimental model
for the dyslipoproteinemia of human Schistosomiasis mansoni.

Lima VL(1), Sena VL, Stewart B, Owen JS, Dolphin PJ.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Bioquímica, Centro de Ciências Biológicas, Universidade
Federal de Pernambuco, Brazil.

Human infection with the parasite Schistosoma mansoni is a relatively common
occurrence in regions of South America and is associated with liver dysfunction
and dyslipoproteinemia. Specifically, the activity of plasma lecithin:cholesterol
acyltransferase (LCAT) activity is reduced, the concentration of plasma
cholesterol esters falls, phospholipid concentrations are elevated and
erythrocyte membranes become cholesterol enriched. Previous studies have utilized
rodents (rats and mice) as experimental models to study the dyslipoproteinemia
induced by S. mansoni infection. However, the plasma lipoprotein profiles in
these animals is very different from humans and infection is not accompanied by
decreases in LCAT activity or cholesterol enrichment of their erythrocyte
membranes. Here we have evaluated the suitability of the marmoset Callithrix
jacchus (sagüi) which is small and readily available in Brazil, as a potential
animal model for the study of the dyslipoproteinemia of S. mansoni infections.
The plasma lipoprotein compositions and distributions in sagüi, unlike rats or
mice, approximate those of man with the LDL representing a major lipoprotein
species. The molecular species of phospholipids, cholesterol esters and
triglycerides present in sagüi plasma are also very similar to man, whereas those
of rats and mice favor the longer chain more unsaturated species, Sagüi, like
rodents, can be successfully infected with S. mansoni and after 60 days, this
results in a 50% reduction in plasma LCAT activity, an 11% reduction in plasma
cholesterol esters, an absolute increase of 46% in plasma phospholipids and an
18% increase in the cholesterol content of erythrocyte membranes. These changes
are qualitatively and quantitatively very similar to those previously reported
following human infections. Based upon these changes, and the observation that
the plasma lipoprotein profile of sagüi and human is similar, we conclude that C.
jacchus (sagüi) is an appropriate animal model for the study of
dyslipoproteinemia associated with S. mansoni infections.

DOI: 10.1016/s0005-2760(98)00076-9 
PMID: 9748601  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3550. Biochim Biophys Acta. 1998 Sep 8;1387(1-2):143-52.

Molecular cloning in the marmoset shows that semenogelin is not the precursor of 
the TRH-like peptide pGlu-Glu-Pro amide.

Huber AE(1), Fraser H, del Rio-Garcia J, Kreil G, Smyth DG.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Molecular Biology, Billrothstrasse 11, A-5020 Salzburg, Austria.

Two peptides with similar structures to thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH),
pGlu-Glu-Pro amide and pGlu-Phe-Pro amide, have been identified in human seminal 
fluid and it has been shown that one of these peptides, pGlu-Glu-Pro amide, has
the ability to increase the capacitation of sperm cells, consistent with a role
in fertility. In order to select a species in which there is a high degree of
expression of the genes that code for 'TRH-like' peptides, we have determined the
levels of these peptides in the prostate, pancreas and thyroid of a range of
species including rat, rabbit, ox, marmoset, macaque and man. The peptides were
extracted from the tissues and purified before determination by RIA with TRH
antibody. In addition, trypsin digestion and TRH RIA was used to investigate the 
presence of N-extended forms. The highest concentrations of TRH-immunoreactive
peptides were found in the tissues of the marmoset, Callithrix jacchus.
Ion-exchange chromatography demonstrated that marmoset thyroid contained
principally authentic TRH, the pancreas contained both TRH and TRH-like peptides 
while the prostate contained TRH-like peptides alone. Further purification by
HPLC showed that the main TRH-immunoreactive peptide in marmoset prostate was
pGlu-Glu-Pro amide and a second component was identified as pGlu-Phe-Pro amide.
The results indicate that the biosynthesis of these peptides could be studied to 
advantage in the marmoset. The biosynthetic precursors of the TRH-like peptides
have not been identified. To examine whether pGlu-Glu-Pro amide might originate
from semenogelin, we determined the sequence of semenogelin in the marmoset. It
exhibited a high degree of homology with human semenogelin-I, but in place of the
Lys-Gln-Glu-Pro sequence that might give rise to pGlu-Glu-Pro amide, marmoset
semenogelin possessed the sequence Ser-Gln-Asp-Gln which cannot serve as a
precursor for a TRH-like peptide. Further evidence was obtained by Northern blot 
analysis of a range of marmoset tissues. The results showed that semenogelin is
not present in marmoset prostate. It is concluded that pGlu-Glu-Pro amide
originates from a precursor distinct from semenogelin, both in marmoset and in
man.

DOI: 10.1016/s0167-4838(98)00116-2 
PMID: 9748547  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

