

3552. J Pharm Sci. 1998 Sep;87(9):1041-5.

Caco-2 cell permeability of a new (hydroxybenzyl)ethylenediamine oral iron
chelator: correlation with physicochemical properties and oral activity.

Lowther N(1), Tomlinson B, Fox R, Faller B, Sergejew T, Donnelly H.

Author information: 
(1)Pharmaceutical and Analytical Development, Ciba Pharmaceuticals (now Novartis 
Horsham Research Centre), Wimblehurst Road, Horsham, West Sussex RH12 4AB,
England. nicholas.lowther@pharma.novartis.com

This study describes the transport of CGP 75254A, a novel oral iron chelator,
across Caco-2 cells in an attempt to model intestinal epithelial cell
permeability in man. CGP 75254A was dosed to the apical side of Caco-2 cell
monolayers, together with [14C]mannitol as an internal permeability standard. The
apparent permeability (Papp) was calculated from the cumulative appearance of
drug in the basolateral fluid with time. The [14C]mannitol Papp indicated that
the Caco-2 monolayers remained intact and that the iron chelator was not toxic to
the cells. Permeabilities of CGP 75254A were compared with the Caco-2
permeabilities of compounds of known absorption in man. The results predict that 
absorption of CGP 75254A is likely to be virtually complete at pH values between 
5.5 and 7.0. However, at pH 8.0 permeability is predicted as negligible. Cell
permeability data are in full accordance with key physicochemical properties of
CGP 75254A and suggest that the drug is passively absorbed. The results, which
suggest likely quantitative absorption in vivo, are supported by preliminary
pharmacological experiments in marmosets.

DOI: 10.1021/js980191s 
PMID: 9724552  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3553. Endocrinology. 1998 Sep;139(9):3935-45.

Immunoexpression of aquaporin-1 in the efferent ducts of the rat and marmoset
monkey during development, its modulation by estrogens, and its possible role in 
fluid resorption.

Fisher JS(1), Turner KJ, Fraser HM, Saunders PT, Brown D, Sharpe RM.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council Reproductive Biology Unit, Centre for Reproductive
Biology, Edinburgh, Scotland, United Kingdom.

Recent data suggest that estrogens play a role in regulating fluid resorption
from the efferent ducts, though the biochemical mechanisms involved are unknown. 
The present study has used immunocytochemistry to localize a water channel
protein, Aquaporin-1 (AQP-1), to the efferent ducts of male rats and marmoset
monkeys from perinatal life through to adulthood and has then investigated its
potential hormonal regulation in neonatal/peripubertal life, via administration
of a GnRH antagonist (GnRHa) or diethylstilbestrol (DES) to rats. AQP-1 was
immunoexpressed intensely in the apical brush border of the epithelium lining the
efferent ducts at all ages studied, from late fetal life through puberty to
adulthood. In the marmoset, but not the rat, AQP-1 was also expressed in the
epithelium of the rete testis. Once the cell types within the efferent duct
epithelium had differentiated, it was clear that only nonciliated cells of the
rat localized AQP-1. When gonadotropin secretion was suppressed in rats by
neonatal administration of GnRHa, immunoexpression of AQP-1 at age 18 and 25 days
was virtually unchanged in intensity, though the efferent ducts were reduced in
size. In contrast, when DES was administered neonatally to rats (up to day 12),
immunoexpression of AQP-1 was reduced at day 10, virtually abolished at day 18,
reduced markedly at day 25 and to a small extent at day 35; these findings were
confirmed by Western blot analysis at day 18. The DES-induced decrease in
immunoexpression of AQP-1 was accompanied by pronounced distension of the
efferent ducts and rete, consistent with reduced fluid resorption. The epithelial
cells of the efferent ducts in DES-treated rats were cuboidal rather than
columnar in shape as in controls and were reduced significantly in height
compared with controls at all ages through to adulthood. These findings suggest
that estrogens may play a role in regulating fluid resorption from the efferent
ducts during fetal/neonatal development and/or a role in the gross and functional
development of the efferent ducts and rete testis. The present data also suggest 
that AQP-1 is one of the elements involved in the regulation of fluid resorption 
in the efferent ducts. The importance of fluid flow in fetal/neonatal development
of the excurrent duct system of the male is also suggested by these observations.

DOI: 10.1210/endo.139.9.6213 
PMID: 9724049  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

