

3553. Endocrinology. 1998 Sep;139(9):3935-45.

Immunoexpression of aquaporin-1 in the efferent ducts of the rat and marmoset
monkey during development, its modulation by estrogens, and its possible role in 
fluid resorption.

Fisher JS(1), Turner KJ, Fraser HM, Saunders PT, Brown D, Sharpe RM.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council Reproductive Biology Unit, Centre for Reproductive
Biology, Edinburgh, Scotland, United Kingdom.

Recent data suggest that estrogens play a role in regulating fluid resorption
from the efferent ducts, though the biochemical mechanisms involved are unknown. 
The present study has used immunocytochemistry to localize a water channel
protein, Aquaporin-1 (AQP-1), to the efferent ducts of male rats and marmoset
monkeys from perinatal life through to adulthood and has then investigated its
potential hormonal regulation in neonatal/peripubertal life, via administration
of a GnRH antagonist (GnRHa) or diethylstilbestrol (DES) to rats. AQP-1 was
immunoexpressed intensely in the apical brush border of the epithelium lining the
efferent ducts at all ages studied, from late fetal life through puberty to
adulthood. In the marmoset, but not the rat, AQP-1 was also expressed in the
epithelium of the rete testis. Once the cell types within the efferent duct
epithelium had differentiated, it was clear that only nonciliated cells of the
rat localized AQP-1. When gonadotropin secretion was suppressed in rats by
neonatal administration of GnRHa, immunoexpression of AQP-1 at age 18 and 25 days
was virtually unchanged in intensity, though the efferent ducts were reduced in
size. In contrast, when DES was administered neonatally to rats (up to day 12),
immunoexpression of AQP-1 was reduced at day 10, virtually abolished at day 18,
reduced markedly at day 25 and to a small extent at day 35; these findings were
confirmed by Western blot analysis at day 18. The DES-induced decrease in
immunoexpression of AQP-1 was accompanied by pronounced distension of the
efferent ducts and rete, consistent with reduced fluid resorption. The epithelial
cells of the efferent ducts in DES-treated rats were cuboidal rather than
columnar in shape as in controls and were reduced significantly in height
compared with controls at all ages through to adulthood. These findings suggest
that estrogens may play a role in regulating fluid resorption from the efferent
ducts during fetal/neonatal development and/or a role in the gross and functional
development of the efferent ducts and rete testis. The present data also suggest 
that AQP-1 is one of the elements involved in the regulation of fluid resorption 
in the efferent ducts. The importance of fluid flow in fetal/neonatal development
of the excurrent duct system of the male is also suggested by these observations.

DOI: 10.1210/endo.139.9.6213 
PMID: 9724049  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3554. Mol Genet Metab. 1998 Jul;64(3):205-12.

Epstein-Barr virus-infected marmoset cells transfected with c-myc do not form
lymphomas in mice with severe combined immunodeficiency.

Salimi B(1), O'Gorman MR, Variakojis D, Bendet M, Newman M, Poupko E, Katz BZ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Northwestern University Medical School, Chicago,
Illinois, USA.

Erratum in
    Mol Genet Metab 1999 Jan;66(1):74.

Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) has been associated with several malignant processes in 
man, most notably Burkitt lymphoma in previously healthy individuals and lesions 
resembling large cell non-Hodgkin lymphomas in organ transplant recipients. Mice 
with the severe combined immunodeficiency phenotype (SCID mice) are exquisitely
susceptible to the development of EBV-associated lymphoproliferative lesions
following the intraperitoneal (ip) inoculation of EBV-infected human lymphocytes.
Recently, we reported that EBV-infected marmoset lymphocytes do not form
lymphomas in SCID mice following ip injection, while human lymphocytes infected
with the same EBV strains do. On the assumption that the EBV-infected marmoset
cells were lacking a factor necessary for tumor formation, we transfected a
plasmid containing c-myc into EBV-infected marmoset cells (B95-8, FF41, and W91
cells). Despite expression of the c-myc protein as determined by immunoblot and
flow cytometry when probed with a monoclonal antibody, no increase over baseline 
lesion development was seen in SCID mice inoculated with 5 x 10(6)
c-myc-expressing marmoset lymphoblastoid cells. Thus, cells that express c-myc
and harbor EBV are not sufficient to form lymphomas in certain immunocompromised 
hosts.

Copyright 1998 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/mgme.1998.2708 
PMID: 9719630  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

