

3554. Mol Genet Metab. 1998 Jul;64(3):205-12.

Epstein-Barr virus-infected marmoset cells transfected with c-myc do not form
lymphomas in mice with severe combined immunodeficiency.

Salimi B(1), O'Gorman MR, Variakojis D, Bendet M, Newman M, Poupko E, Katz BZ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Northwestern University Medical School, Chicago,
Illinois, USA.

Erratum in
    Mol Genet Metab 1999 Jan;66(1):74.

Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) has been associated with several malignant processes in 
man, most notably Burkitt lymphoma in previously healthy individuals and lesions 
resembling large cell non-Hodgkin lymphomas in organ transplant recipients. Mice 
with the severe combined immunodeficiency phenotype (SCID mice) are exquisitely
susceptible to the development of EBV-associated lymphoproliferative lesions
following the intraperitoneal (ip) inoculation of EBV-infected human lymphocytes.
Recently, we reported that EBV-infected marmoset lymphocytes do not form
lymphomas in SCID mice following ip injection, while human lymphocytes infected
with the same EBV strains do. On the assumption that the EBV-infected marmoset
cells were lacking a factor necessary for tumor formation, we transfected a
plasmid containing c-myc into EBV-infected marmoset cells (B95-8, FF41, and W91
cells). Despite expression of the c-myc protein as determined by immunoblot and
flow cytometry when probed with a monoclonal antibody, no increase over baseline 
lesion development was seen in SCID mice inoculated with 5 x 10(6)
c-myc-expressing marmoset lymphoblastoid cells. Thus, cells that express c-myc
and harbor EBV are not sufficient to form lymphomas in certain immunocompromised 
hosts.

Copyright 1998 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/mgme.1998.2708 
PMID: 9719630  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3555. Indian J Exp Biol. 1998 Apr;36(4):353-7.

Immunoreactive riboflavin carrier protein concentration during ovulatory cycle in
the common marmoset (Callithrix jachhus): role of estrogen.

Natraj U(1), Pereira J.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Research in Reproduction (ICMR), Parel, Bombay, India.

Common marmoset, a non-human primate, is increasingly being used as a model
system in reproductive endocrinology. Marmosets do not menstruate but have normal
cycle length of 28 +/- 2 days. The presence of protein immunologically and
functionally similar to the well characterized chicken riboflavin carrier protein
(cRCP) has been demonstrated in circulation in pregnant marmosets. Marmoset RCP
(mRCP) has been partially purified and the molecular weight of the immunoreactive
protein is similar to cRCP. The source of RCP in rodents appears to be maternal
liver, suggesting thereby that RCP levels could be modulated by changing hormonal
pattern that occurs during the cycle. To study the hormonal control of marmoset
RCP, immunoreactive RCP levels were monitored during normal cycle. Plasma
progesterone was estimated by RIA and mRCP was measured using a heterologous cRCP
RIA. When mRCP and progesterone were analysed for a period of 40 days (n = 5) in 
adult females, very low amount of mRCP was measured during the luteal phase and a
single sharp peak was observed during the follicular phase of the cycle. These
data suggested that the induction of mRCP was regulated by estrogen. Direct
evidence for the role of estrogen in the elaboration of RCP, was the observation 
that exogenous administration of estradiol 17 B to immature marmosets resulted in
a time and dose dependent increase in plasma RCP levels. As early as 24 hr
following hormonal administration, a measurable increase in mRCP with a maximum
increase, 5-fold over the zero period was seen 3 days following a single
administration of estradiol 17 B (5 mg/kg body wt). RCP levels declined
thereafter and was indistinguishable by day 7. These studies indicate that the
marmoset RCP levels are regulated by estrogen.


PMID: 9717443  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

