

3555. Indian J Exp Biol. 1998 Apr;36(4):353-7.

Immunoreactive riboflavin carrier protein concentration during ovulatory cycle in
the common marmoset (Callithrix jachhus): role of estrogen.

Natraj U(1), Pereira J.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Research in Reproduction (ICMR), Parel, Bombay, India.

Common marmoset, a non-human primate, is increasingly being used as a model
system in reproductive endocrinology. Marmosets do not menstruate but have normal
cycle length of 28 +/- 2 days. The presence of protein immunologically and
functionally similar to the well characterized chicken riboflavin carrier protein
(cRCP) has been demonstrated in circulation in pregnant marmosets. Marmoset RCP
(mRCP) has been partially purified and the molecular weight of the immunoreactive
protein is similar to cRCP. The source of RCP in rodents appears to be maternal
liver, suggesting thereby that RCP levels could be modulated by changing hormonal
pattern that occurs during the cycle. To study the hormonal control of marmoset
RCP, immunoreactive RCP levels were monitored during normal cycle. Plasma
progesterone was estimated by RIA and mRCP was measured using a heterologous cRCP
RIA. When mRCP and progesterone were analysed for a period of 40 days (n = 5) in 
adult females, very low amount of mRCP was measured during the luteal phase and a
single sharp peak was observed during the follicular phase of the cycle. These
data suggested that the induction of mRCP was regulated by estrogen. Direct
evidence for the role of estrogen in the elaboration of RCP, was the observation 
that exogenous administration of estradiol 17 B to immature marmosets resulted in
a time and dose dependent increase in plasma RCP levels. As early as 24 hr
following hormonal administration, a measurable increase in mRCP with a maximum
increase, 5-fold over the zero period was seen 3 days following a single
administration of estradiol 17 B (5 mg/kg body wt). RCP levels declined
thereafter and was indistinguishable by day 7. These studies indicate that the
marmoset RCP levels are regulated by estrogen.


PMID: 9717443  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3556. Vet Rec. 1998 Jul 18;143(3):78-80.

Unusual case of metabolic bone disease in a common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Hatt JM(1), Sainsbury AW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Zoo Animals and Exotic Pets, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine,
University of Zurich, Switzerland.

Metabolic bone disease was diagnosed in an 11-month-old female common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus). It was depressed, reluctant to move, and was cachectic and 
small for its age. Laboratory findings included anaemia, azotaemia and an inverse
calcium to phosphorus ratio. The radiological findings showed simultaneous signs 
of osteomalacia and soft-tissue calcification. There was decreased bone density
with lytic areas in the pelvis and femur, and severe bilateral nephrocalcinosis. 
Postmortem examination revealed marked focal dystrophic calcification of the epi-
and myocardium. Calcium and vitamin D3 deficiency (nutritional secondary
hyperparathyroidism) was the most likely cause of the osteomalacia.

DOI: 10.1136/vr.143.3.78 
PMID: 9717224  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

