

3557. Am J Pathol. 1998 Aug;153(2):649-63.

Histopathological characterization of magnetic resonance imaging-detectable brain
white matter lesions in a primate model of multiple sclerosis: a correlative
study in the experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis model in common marmosets 
(Callithrix jacchus).

Hart BA(1), Bauer J, Muller HJ, Melchers B, Nicolay K, Brok H, Bontrop RE,
Lassmann H, Massacesi L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Rijswijk, The
Netherlands. hart@bprc.nl

Experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis in the common marmoset, a nonhuman
primate species (Callithrix jacchus), is a new model for multiple sclerosis.
Given the close immunological relationship between marmosets and humans, it is an
attractive model for investigating immunopathological pathways relevant to
multiple sclerosis and to evaluate new treatments for the disease. Unlike in the 
originally documented model, experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis induced
without the use of Bordetella pertussis led to a chronic disease of moderate
severity. The clinical course of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis in the
present model was mainly chronic and progressive, but periods of incomplete
remission did occur. At the chronic stage of the disease, actively demyelinating 
lesions were found together with inactive demyelinated and remyelinated (shadow) 
plaques. Before immunization and during clinically active experimental autoimmune
encephalomyelitis, T1- and T2-weighted magnetic resonance brain images were
obtained. Correlation of the data from the magnetic resonance images and the
neuropathology analysis revealed that the hyperintense regions in T2-weighted
images represented both active and inactive remyelinating lesions. Quantification
showed that the number of lesions in T2-weighted magnetic resonance images
equalled those found by pathological examination, and thus T2-weighted magnetic
resonance imaging can be used to discern the total lesion load. Extravasation of 
gadolinium-diethylenetriamine-penta-acetic acid (triple dose) was found only in
lesions, which by histopathology were shown to be engaged in the process of
active demyelination.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9440(10)65606-4 
PMCID: PMC1852983
PMID: 9708823  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3558. Mem Inst Oswaldo Cruz. 1998 Jan-Feb;93(1):45-55.

Morphological features of trypanosomes from squirrel monkeys from the Brazilian
Amazon.

Ziccardi M(1), Lourenço-de-Oliveira R.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Transmissores de Hematozoários, Instituto Oswaldo Cruz, Rio de 
Janeiro, Brasil. ziccardi@gene.dbbm.fiocruz.br

A morphometric analysis of blood trypomastigotes identified as Trypanosoma
minasense, T. saimirii, and T. rangeli harbored by squirrel monkeys from the
Brazilian Amazon was performed. Additionally, morphological and biological
comparative analyses were conducted of T. saimirii-like and T. rangeli
development forms from haemoculture and xenodiagnosis. Illustrations are given of
blood trypomastigotes as well as of developing flagellates in triatomine and
axenic culture. Mean values of blood trypomastigotes of T. saimirii differ
statistically from those of T. rangeli in only two out of ten morphological
characters measured, and ranges overlapped. The developing forms of T.
saimrii-like parasites were essentially identical in both xenodiagnosis and
haemoculture to those of T. rangeli. Trypanosomes confirmed as T. rangeli were
transmitted to mice by the bites of the great majority of triatomines that fed on
T. saimirii-like infected monkeys. We conclude that, based on morphology and on
the development in triatomine bugs and haemoculture, T. saimirii should not be
considered a distinct species. We therefore propose T. saimirii to be a junior
synonym of T. rangeli.


PMID: 9698843  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

