

3558. Mem Inst Oswaldo Cruz. 1998 Jan-Feb;93(1):45-55.

Morphological features of trypanosomes from squirrel monkeys from the Brazilian
Amazon.

Ziccardi M(1), Lourenço-de-Oliveira R.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Transmissores de Hematozoários, Instituto Oswaldo Cruz, Rio de 
Janeiro, Brasil. ziccardi@gene.dbbm.fiocruz.br

A morphometric analysis of blood trypomastigotes identified as Trypanosoma
minasense, T. saimirii, and T. rangeli harbored by squirrel monkeys from the
Brazilian Amazon was performed. Additionally, morphological and biological
comparative analyses were conducted of T. saimirii-like and T. rangeli
development forms from haemoculture and xenodiagnosis. Illustrations are given of
blood trypomastigotes as well as of developing flagellates in triatomine and
axenic culture. Mean values of blood trypomastigotes of T. saimirii differ
statistically from those of T. rangeli in only two out of ten morphological
characters measured, and ranges overlapped. The developing forms of T.
saimrii-like parasites were essentially identical in both xenodiagnosis and
haemoculture to those of T. rangeli. Trypanosomes confirmed as T. rangeli were
transmitted to mice by the bites of the great majority of triatomines that fed on
T. saimirii-like infected monkeys. We conclude that, based on morphology and on
the development in triatomine bugs and haemoculture, T. saimirii should not be
considered a distinct species. We therefore propose T. saimirii to be a junior
synonym of T. rangeli.


PMID: 9698843  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3559. Rev Bras Biol. 1998 May;58(2):169-73.

Reproduction and maintenance of two species of marmoset in captivity.

Peters VM(1), Guerra Mde D.

Author information: 
(1)Centro de Biologia da Reprodução, Universidade Federal de Juiz de Fora, Minas 
Gerais, Brasil.

Marmoset monkeys are an useful model to biological human experiments and their
development in captivity has been carried out in different environment and
feeding conditions. This work presents the development of Callithrix jacchus
jacchus and Callithrix jacchus penicillata in captivity at the vivarium of the
Centro de Biologia da Reprodução. Couples of marmosets, obtained with the help of
the Forest Institute, were kept in an environment where the temperature was
around 22-24 degrees C, with 10 hs of light per day and fed on a diet of dog chow
pellets, bananas, eggs, carrots, Farinha Láctea (Nestlé) and milk. Comparing the 
number of newborns/delivery, interbirth delivery, and some other indicators, it
was concluded that the development of Callithrix jacchus jacchus is compatible
with other colonies cited in the literature. The development of Callithrix
jacchus penicillata, on which no report has been found, is similar to that of
Callithrix jacchus jacchus.


PMID: 9697652  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

