

3563. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 1998 Jun;9(3):408-13.

Phylogeny of neotropical monkeys: the interplay of morphological, molecular, and 
parasitological data.

Hugot JP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Muséum National d'Histoire Naturelle, Paris, BioSystematics and Coevolution in
Parasitic Nematodes, ERS 156 du CNRS, 61, Rue Buffon, Paris Cedex 05, 75231,
France.

Separate independent hypotheses of the phylogenetic relationships among the
Platyrrhini monkeys have been produced in a recent past, either based upon
morphological or molecular data, but the results are generally conflicting and
the phylogeny of the group still is debated. The high host specificity observed
among primates and their oxyurid parasites allows to consider the result of a
morphologically based cladistic analysis of the pinworms of the Platyrrhini as an
estimate of the phylogeny of these monkeys. Using the matrix representation
method this "parasite-tree" is combined, using parsimony analysis, with several
conflicting molecular or morphological hypothesis of the phylogeny of the host
group. The results are discussed with respect to previously published
classification, or composite computations of the phylogeny, of the Neotropical
monkeys. Comparison of different hypothesis makes apparent several stable groups:
(i) the Callithrichidae + Saimiri, (ii) the Atelidae/Alouattidae, (iii) the
Pitheciidae, and (iv) the Alouattidae/Atelidae + Pitheciidae. In addition, the
parasite and the molecular trees support close relationships between Callimico
and Callithrix/Cebuella. The study also makes apparent that the parasite tree
generally portrays the results of other studies, both when they are congruous and
when they are conflicting. This is interpreted to be additional evidence for
close coevolution between the Platyrrhini and their specific pinworms. Because,
whatever the combination of data being considered no consensus can be found on
the exact position of Aotus and Callicebus, and because it is likely that the
earliest radiation of the Platyrrhini could be comparable to an evolutionary
burst, which renders identification of homologous characters difficult, it is
suggested that, possibly, not enough discriminating tracks of the evolutionary
paths have been conserved to allow to resolve this uncertainty in the future.

Copyright 1998 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/mpev.1998.0497 
PMID: 9667989  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3564. J Mol Evol. 1998 Jul;47(1):32-41.

A reexamination of the phylogenetic position of Callimico (primates)
incorporating new mitochondrial DNA sequence data.

Pastorini J(1), Forstner MR, Martin RD, Melnick DJ.

Author information: 
(1)Anthropologisches Institut, Universität Zürich-Irchel, Switzerland.
jenny@aim.unizh.ch

The New World monkeys are divided into two main groups, Callitrichidae and
Cebidae. Callimico goeldii shares traits with both the Cebidae and the
Callitrichidae. Recent morphological phyletic studies generally place Callimico
as the most basal member of the Callitrichidae. In contrast, genetic studies
(immunological, restriction fragment, and sequence data) have consistently placed
Callimico somewhere within the Callitrichidae, not basal to this clade. A DNA
sequence data set from the terminal 236 codons of the mitochondrial ND4 gene and 
the tRNA(His), tRNA(Ser), and tRNA(Leu) genes was generated to clarify the
position of Callimico. The sequences of 887 base pairs were analyzed by
maximum-parsimony, neighbor-joining, and maximum-likelihood methods. The results 
of these various methods are generally congruent and place Callimico within the
Callitrichidae between the marmosets (Callithrix and Cebuella) and the tamarins
(Saguinus and Leontopithecus). Combined analyses of all suitable nuclear and
mitochondrial gene sequences confirm the position of Callimico between the
marmosets and the tamarins. As available molecular evidence indicates that
Callimico is more closely related to the marmosets than to the tamarins, a
reconsideration of the morphological evidence in light of the consensus tree from
DNA sequence analyses is warranted. The marmosets and tamarins share four
morphological characters (loss of the third molar, loss of the hypocone, reduced 
body size, reproductive twinning). Dwarfism may have evolved repeatedly among the
Callitrichidae. It is well-known that the loss of a character can occur many
times independently. The reproduction of marmosets and tamarins is extremely
specialized and it is difficult to imagine that this complex and unique twinning 
system evolved separately in marmosets and tamarins. However, it is possible that
a secondary reversal to single offspring took place in Callimico.

DOI: 10.1007/pl00006360 
PMID: 9664694  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

