

3565. J Med Virol. 1998 Aug;55(4):255-61.

Immunization of common marmosets with Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) envelope
glycoprotein gp340: effect on viral shedding following EBV challenge.

Cox C(1), Naylor BA, Mackett M, Arrand JR, Griffin BE, Wedderburn N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Royal College of Surgeons of England, London,
England, UK.

Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), the cause of infectious mononucleosis, is involved in
the pathogenesis of several human cancers, the highest frequency of association
being found in undifferentiated nasopharyngeal carcinoma and endemic Burkitt's
lymphoma. The development of animal models in which potential vaccines can be
tested is important. EBV infection of the common marmoset, using the M81 strain
originally derived from a patient with nasopharyngeal carcinoma, induces a
carrier state in this animal. Persistent infection is characterized by the
production of antibodies to viral antigens, and the secretion of EBV DNA into
buccal fluids. Following immunization with envelope glycoprotein gp340 derived
from a bovine papilloma virus expression vector, prior to EBV infection, viral
DNA was detected significantly less frequently in the buccal fluids of immunized,
than of nonimmunized, infected animals, indicating that although the carrier
state had not been abolished, it had been altered. A reduction in virus load was 
also observed when offspring of seronegative, and on occasion seropositive,
parents were immunized neonatally, before EBV challenge.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1096-9071(199808)55:4<255::aid-jmv1>3.0.co;2-# 
PMID: 9661832  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3566. Nat Med. 1998 Jul;4(7):827-31.

Aging renders the brain vulnerable to amyloid beta-protein neurotoxicity.

Geula C(1), Wu CK, Saroff D, Lorenzo A, Yuan M, Yankner BA.

Author information: 
(1)Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center and Department of Medicine, Harvard
Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA. cgeula@west.bidmc.harvard.edu

Comment in
    Nat Med. 1998 Jul;4(7):745.

The formation of fibrillar deposits of amyloid beta protein (Abeta) in the brain 
is a pathological hallmark of Alzheimer's disease (AD). A central question is
whether Abeta plays a direct role in the neurodegenerative process in AD. The
involvement of Abeta in the neurodegenerative process is suggested by the
neurotoxicity of the fibrillar form of Abeta in vitro. However, mice transgenic
for the Abeta precursor protein that develop amyloid deposits in the brain do not
show the degree of neuronal loss or tau phosphorylation found in AD. Here we show
that microinjection of plaque-equivalent concentrations of fibrillar, but not
soluble, Abeta in the aged rhesus monkey cerebral cortex results in profound
neuronal loss, tau phosphorylation and microglial proliferation. Fibrillar Abeta 
at plaque-equivalent concentrations is not toxic in the young adult rhesus brain.
Abeta toxicity in vivo is also highly species-specific; toxicity is greater in
aged rhesus monkeys than in aged marmoset monkeys, and is not significant in aged
rats. These results suggest that Abeta neurotoxicity in vivo is a pathological
response of the aging brain, which is most pronounced in higher order primates.
Thus, longevity may contribute to the unique susceptibility of humans to
Alzheimer's disease by rendering the brain vulnerable to Abeta neurotoxicity.

DOI: 10.1038/nm0798-827 
PMID: 9662375  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

