

3568. J Neuroimmunol. 1998 Jun 1;86(1):30-45.

Expression of accessory molecules and cytokines in acute EAE in marmoset monkeys 
(Callithrix jacchus).

Laman JD(1), van Meurs M, Schellekens MM, de Boer M, Melchers B, Massacesi L,
Lassmann H, Claassen E, Hart BA.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Immunological and Infectious Diseases, TNO Prevention and Health, 
Leiden, The Netherlands. jd.laman@pg.tno.nl

Accessory molecules and cytokines are involved in the immunopathogenesis of
multiple sclerosis (MS) and experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) in
rodent models, and are potential targets for immunotherapy. Evaluation of such
experimental therapies requires appropriate animal models. Therefore, we analysed
the expression of selected accessory molecules and cytokines in the brain of
marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) with acute EAE, a newly described non-human
primate model for MS. All animals experienced active disease clinically and
histopathologically with strong resemblance to MS. Perivascular infiltrates of
mononuclear cells showed abundant expression of CD40. CD40 was expressed on
macrophages, indicating that T cell priming and macrophage effector functions may
result from local CD40-CD40L interactions. CD40 ligand (CD40L) and B7-2 (CD86)
were also expressed, but to a lower extent, while B7-1 (CD80) expression was
limited. Both pro-inflammatory and anti-inflammatory cytokines were produced
within individual lesions during active disease (IFN-alpha, IFN-gamma, TNF-alpha,
IL-1alpha, IL-1beta, IL-2, IL-4, IL-10 and IL-12). This suggests that relative
levels rather than sequential expression of Th1- and Th2-type cytokines determine
disease activity. These findings demonstrate the value of EAE in marmoset monkeys
as a model to assess the role of accessory molecules and cytokines in multiple
sclerosis, and to evaluate targeted intervention.

DOI: 10.1016/s0165-5728(98)00024-1 
PMID: 9655470  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3569. Hum Reprod. 1998 May;13(5):1169-74.

Reactivity of human trophoblast monoclonal antibodies with marmoset monkey
trophoblast cultures.

Hawes CS(1), Petropoulos A, Lopata A, Kalionis B, Jones WR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Flinders University of South
Australia, Flinders Medical Centre, Bedford Park.

The aim of this study was to determine whether cultured trophoblast tissues,
derived from the trophectoderm of marmoset monkey blastocysts, contain homologues
of human trophoblast antigens. This is an essential prerequisite to determine
whether the marmoset may be a suitable model for preclinical testing of a human
antitrophoblast antigen for fertility regulation. Previously evaluated monoclonal
antibodies from the Flinders University laboratory, which reacted with human
trophoblast with a high degree of specificity, were tested for
immunohistochemical reactivity using an immunoperoxidase detection method on both
frozen and paraformaldehyde-fixed sections of the cultured marmoset monkey
trophoblast. All monoclonal antibodies raised against human placenta reacted
positively, when compared to controls, suggesting that human and marmoset
trophoblast cells share common epitopes. The specificity of the monoclonal
antibodies was investigated by determining whether there was cross-reactivity
with other marmoset monkey tissues, including adrenal, spleen, kidney, liver,
muscle, ovary and testis. The specificities of the monoclonal antibodies on these
marmoset tissues were similar to those previously found on the corresponding
human tissues. We have concluded that marmoset monkey trophoblast exhibits
homologues of human trophoblast antigens. The findings also suggest that marmoset
monkeys should be evaluated further as a primate model to test suitable target
antigens for antitrophoblast vaccines that may be useful contragestation agents
in humans.

DOI: 10.1093/humrep/13.5.1169 
PMID: 9647541  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

