

3586. Arzneimittelforschung. 1998 Feb;48(2):154-60.

Lipid lowering effects of pravastatin in common marmosets.

Miyazaki A(1), Koga T.

Author information: 
(1)Pharmacology and Molecular Biology Research Laboratories, Sankyo Co., Ltd.,
tokyo (Japan).

In the present study it was examined if the common marmoset was susceptible to
pravastatin (CAS 81131-70-6, CS 514, Mevalotin), an inhibitor of
3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase. It has been reported
that serum lipid levels in common marmosets resemble those in humans. First serum
total cholesterol and lipoprotein cholesterol levels of common marmosets were
examined in comparison with those in seven different experimental animals
including cynomolgus monkeys, beagle dogs, Watanabe heritable hyperlipidemic
rabbits, Japanese White Rabbits, Sprague Dawley rats, Wistar-Imamichi rats and
golden hamsters. The animals were fed normal chow diets, and total- and
lipoprotein-cholesterol levels were determined under identical conditions. The
quantitative and polyacrylamide electrophoresis studies indicated that among
animals examined serum lipid and lipoprotein profiles in common marmosets were
similar to those in humans. When pravastatin at 1-30 mg/kg was orally
administered to common marmosets for 28 days, total, low density lipoprotein
(LDL)- and high density lipoprotein-cholesterol levels were decreased in a dose
dependent manner, whereas triglycerides and very low density lipoprotein
cholesterol did not change. These findings confirm that common marmosets have
serum lipid and lipoprotein profiles similar to those in humans suggesting that
they are susceptible to lipid lowering effects of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors.


PMID: 9541726  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3587. Horm Behav. 1998 Feb;33(1):58-74.

Suppression of cortisol levels in subordinate female marmosets: reproductive and 
social contributions.

Saltzman W(1), Schultz-Darken NJ, Wegner FH, Wittwer DJ, Abbott DH.

Author information: 
(1)Wisconsin Regional Primate Research Center, Endocrinology-Reproductive
Physiology Program, University of Wisconsin, Madison 53715-1299, USA.
saltzman@primate.wisc.edu

Socially subordinate female common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) have markedly
lower plasma cortisol levels than dominant females. Subordinate females also
undergo hypoestrogenemic anovulation, and estrogen can elevate glucocorticoid
levels. Therefore, we previously hypothesized that this cortisol difference is
mediated by rank-related differences in reproductive hormones, probably
estradiol. To test this possibility, we characterized the effects of the ovarian 
cycle and ovariectomy on plasma cortisol concentrations. Beginning in the early
follicular phase, basal blood samples were collected from seven cycling female
marmosets daily for 16 days and at 2- to 3-day intervals for another 16 days.
Samples were collected identically from seven anovulatory subordinate females and
seven long-term ovariectomized females. Cortisol levels changed reliably across
the ovarian cycle, with levels in the mid- to late follicular, peri-ovulatory,
and early luteal phases higher than those in the remainder of the cycle. Cortisol
levels of cycling females were significantly higher than those of subordinates at
all parts of the cycle, but were significantly higher than those of
ovariectomized females only during the midcycle elevation. Unexpectedly,
subordinates had significantly lower cortisol levels than ovariectomized females,
as well as higher estradiol and estrone levels and lower progesterone and
luteinizing hormone (LH) levels. These results confirm that circulating cortisol 
concentrations are modulated by reproductive function in female marmosets but
also indicate that low cortisol levels in subordinate females cannot be
attributed simply to hypoestrogenemia. Instead, other factors, such as direct
effects of social subordination or suppression of LH levels, contribute to
suppression of cortisol in subordinates.

DOI: 10.1006/hbeh.1998.1436 
PMID: 9571014  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

