

3589. J Comp Neurol. 1998 Apr 20;393(4):505-27.

Visuotopic organisation and neuronal response selectivity for direction of motion
in visual areas of the caudal temporal lobe of the marmoset monkey (Callithrix
jacchus): middle temporal area, middle temporal crescent, and surrounding cortex.

Rosa MG(1), Elston GN.

Author information: 
(1)Vision, Touch, & Hearing Research Centre, Department of Physiology and
Pharmacology, The University of Queensland, Australia. M.Rosa@vthrc.uq.edu.au

On the basis of extracellular recordings in marmoset monkeys, we report on the
organisation of the middle temporal area (MT) and the surrounding middle temporal
crescent (MTc). Area MT is approximately 5-mm long and 2-mm wide, whereas the MTc
forms a crescent-shaped band of cortex 1-mm wide. Neurones in area MT form a
first-order representation of the contralateral hemifield, whereas those in the
MTc form a second-order representation with a field discontinuity near the
horizontal meridian. The representation of the vertical meridian forms the border
between area MT and the MTc. In both areas, the fovea is represented
ventrocaudally, and the visual field periphery is represented dorsorostrally.
Analysis of single units revealed that 86% of cells in area MT show a strong
selectivity for the direction of motion of visual stimuli. The proportion of
direction-selective cells in the MTc (53%), whereas lower than that in area MT,
is much higher than that observed in most other visual areas. Neurones in the
cortex immediately rostral to area MT and the MTc are direction selective, with
receptive fields predominantly located in the visual field periphery. In
contrast, only a minority of the cells in the cortex ventral to the MTc are
direction selective, and their receptive fields emphasise central vision. The
results suggest that the MTc is functionally closely related to area MT, and
distinct from the areas forming the dorsolateral complex. The MTc may have a role
in combining information about motion in the visual field, processed by area MT, 
with information about stimulus shape, processed by the dorsolateral complex.


PMID: 9550155  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3590. J Virol. 1998 May;72(5):3698-704.

Substitution of ras for the herpesvirus saimiri STP oncogene in lymphocyte
transformation.

Guo J(1), Williams K, Duboise SM, Alexander L, Veazey R, Jung JU.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Molecular Genetics, New England Regional
Primate Research Center, Harvard Medical School, Southborough, Massachusetts
01772-9102, USA.

STP-C488 (STP of herpesvirus saimiri [HVS] group C strain 488 [C488]) is the only
virus-encoded protein found to associate with cellular ras and activate ras
signal transduction pathways. To investigate an important role for ras signal
transduction in STP-dependent growth transformation, we constructed recombinant
strains of HVS C488 in which the STP-C488 oncogene was replaced with cellular
normal ras (c-ras) or viral oncogenic ras (v-ras). Recombinant HVS deltaSTP/v-ras
immortalized primary common marmoset T lymphocytes to interleukin-2-independent
growth as efficiently as wild-type HVS C488 (wt HVS), while recombinant HVS
deltaSTP/c-ras did so with low efficiency. Whereas wt HVS immortalized CD4- CD8+ 
single-positive T lymphocytes, HVS deltaSTP/c-ras- and HVS
deltaSTP/v-ras-immortalized cells were principally CD4+ CD8+ double-positive T
lymphocytes. In addition, HVS deltaSTP/v-ras-immortalized T cells showed a high
level of ras expression and exhibited an adherent macrophage-like morphology.
These phenotypes were likely caused by the drastic activation of AP-1
transcriptional factor activity. Finally, HVS deltaSTP/v-ras and HVS
deltaSTP/c-ras each induced lymphoma in one of two common marmosets, although
onset of disease was more rapid with the v-ras virus. These results demonstrate
that ras can substitute for the STP oncogene of HVS C488 to allow immortalized
growth of primary lymphoid cells and that an activated form of ras does so more
efficiently than the normal cellular form of ras.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.72.5.3698-3704.1998 
PMCID: PMC109591
PMID: 9557651  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

