

3600. J Virol. 1998 Apr;72(4):3205-12.

Infection of human B lymphocytes with lymphocryptoviruses related to Epstein-Barr
virus.

Moghaddam A(1), Koch J, Annis B, Wang F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, 
Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Lymphocryptoviruses (LCVs) naturally infecting Old World nonhuman primates are
closely related to the human LCV, Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), and share similar
genome organization and sequences, biologic properties, epidemiology, and
pathogenesis. LCVs can efficiently immortalize B lymphocytes from the autologous 
species, but the ability of a given LCV to immortalize B cells from other Old
World primate species is variable. We found that LCV from rhesus monkeys did not 
immortalize human B cells, and EBV did not immortalize rhesus monkey B cells. In 
this study, baboon LCV could not immortalize human peripheral blood B cells but
could readily immortalize rhesus monkey B cells. Thus, efficient LCV-induced
B-cell immortalization across distant Old World primate species appears to be
restricted by a species-specific block. To further characterize this species
restriction, we first cloned the rhesus monkey LCV major membrane glycoprotein
and discovered that the binding epitope for the EBV receptor, CD21, was highly
conserved. Stable infections of human B cells with recombinant amplicons packaged
in rhesus monkey or baboon LCV envelopes were also consistent with a
species-restricted block occurring after virus binding and penetration. Transient
infections of human B cells with simian LCV resulted in latent LCV EBNA-2 gene
expression and activation of cell CD23 gene expression. EBV-immortalized human B 
cells could be coinfected with baboon LCV, and the simian virus persisted and
replicated in human B cells. Thus, several lines of evidence indicate that the
species restriction for efficient LCV-induced B-cell immortalization occurs
beyond virus binding and penetration. This has important implications for the
study of LCV infection in Old World primate models and for human
xenotransplantation where simian LCVs may be inadvertently introduced into
humans.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.72.4.3205-3212.1998 
PMCID: PMC109784
PMID: 9525646  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3601. J Virol. 1998 Apr;72(4):2905-16.

A single amino acid change in the hemagglutinin protein of measles virus
determines its ability to bind CD46 and reveals another receptor on marmoset B
cells.

Hsu EC(1), Sarangi F, Iorio C, Sidhu MS, Udem SA, Dillehay DL, Xu W, Rota PA,
Bellini WJ, Richardson CD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Biophysics, University of Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

This paper provides evidence for a measles virus receptor other than CD46 on
transformed marmoset and human B cells. We first showed that most tissues of
marmosets are missing the SCR1 domain of CD46, which is essential for the binding
of Edmonston measles virus, a laboratory strain that has been propagated in Vero 
monkey kidney cells. In spite of this deletion, the common marmoset was shown to 
be susceptible to infections by wild-type isolates of measles virus, although
they did not support Edmonston measles virus production. As one would expect from
these results, measles virus could not be propagated in owl monkey or marmoset
kidney cell lines, but surprisingly, both a wild-type isolate (Montefiore 89) and
the Edmonston laboratory strain of measles virus grew efficiently in B95-8
marmoset B cells. In addition, antibodies directed against CD46 had no effect on 
wild-type infections of marmoset B cells and only partially inhibited the
replication of the Edmonston laboratory strain in the same cells. A direct
binding assay with insect cells expressing the hemagglutinin (H) proteins of
either the Edmonston or Montefiore 89 measles virus strains was used to probe the
receptors on these B cells. Insect cells expressing Edmonston H but not the
wild-type H bound to rodent cells with CD46 on their surface. On the other hand, 
both the Montefiore 89 H and Edmonston H proteins adhered to marmoset and human B
cells. Most wild-type H proteins have asparagine residues at position 481 and can
be converted to a CD46-binding phenotype by replacement of the residue with
tyrosine. Similarly, the Edmonston H protein did not bind CD46 when its Tyr481
was converted to asparagine. However, this mutation did not affect the ability of
Edmonston H to bind marmoset and human B cells. The preceding results provide
evidence, through the use of a direct binding assay, that a second receptor for
measles virus is present on primate B cells.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.72.4.2905-2916.1998 
PMCID: PMC109736
PMID: 9525611  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

