

3606. Pharmacol Biochem Behav. 1998 Mar;59(3):717-21.

Effects of acute or prolonged administration of cabergoline on parkinsonism
induced by MPTP in common marmosets.

Nomoto M(1), Kita S, Iwata SI, Kaseda S, Fukuda T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Kagoshima University School of Medicine,
Sakuragaoka, Japan.

The effects of a single treatment or chronic administration of cabergoline
(1-[(6-allylergolin-8beta-yl)carbonyl]-1-[3-(dimethylamino)p
ropyl]-3-ethyl-urea), a potent, long-lasting dopamine receptor agonist, on
parkinsonism induced by 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) in
common marmosets were studied. The administration of 0.2 mg/kg or a higer dose of
cabergoline began to reverse parkinsonism-like symptoms 60 min after a
subcutaneous injection, and showed steady and constant effects throughout the
observation period. For prolonged administration, 0.2 mg/kg cabergoline was
injected daily for 22 consecutive days. Locomotor activity in MPTP-treated
animals increased until it reached its peak on the third day, then it gradually
decreased. Akinesia scores, rating the quality of movements, were also improved, 
and the improvement was sustained up to the last day of chronic administration.
None of the animals developed abnormal behaviors after either acute or chronic
administration. These results suggest that cabergoline has long-acting effects in
the marmoset model of parkinsonism, and that it will be a useful agent for the
treatment of Parkinson's disease, particularly in cases with fluctuating motor
disabilities.

DOI: 10.1016/s0091-3057(97)00552-2 
PMID: 9512077  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3607. Brain Res Bull. 1998;45(3):319-26.

The role of the central cholinergic projections in cognition: implications of the
effects of scopolamine on discrimination learning by monkeys.

Harder JA(1), Baker HF, Ridley RM.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Comparative Cognition Team, Department of Experimental Psychology,
Cambridge, UK.

In humans, administration of the cholinergic antagonist scopolamine impairs the
encoding of information into long-term memory and has effects on other cognitive 
processes. It has been supposed that it is inhibition of the rising cholinergic
projections from the basal forebrain, specifically from the basal nucleus of
Meynert (NBM) to the neocortex and from the medial septum/vertical limb of the
diagonal band of Broca (MS/VDB) to the hippocampus, that results in these
cognitive impairments. In this paper, we describe the effects of scopolamine
treatment in monkeys on learning different sorts of visual discrimination and
visuospatial conditional tasks and compare these results to the effects of
lesions of the rising cholinergic projections. Experiments in rodents in which
these projections have been selectively destroyed have failed to produce a
consensus view of the functions of these two areas. In particular, highly
specific immunotoxic lesions of the NBM have largely failed to produce changes in
task performance that can be interpreted as resulting from a cognitive
impairment. In monkeys, lesions of the NBM produce modest or short-lasting,
impairments in visual discrimination learning, retention, and reversal, whereas
lesions of the MS/VDB produce large and permanent impairments of certain types of
conditional learning. Similar impairments produced by scopolamine in monkeys and 
additive effects of lesions of the NBM or MS/VDB with scopolamine suggest that
scopolamine has these effects by acting on the rising cholinergic pathways rather
than on other cholinergic systems in the brain. It is argued that the rising
cholinergic projections sustain the functions of the target areas; in the case of
the hippocampus in humans, the function is usually regarded as being the analysis
of information in a way that is pertinent to the formation of episodic memories
and in the case of the neocortex, is the analysis of information in a manner that
is relevant to the cognitive processing of on-going events and the acquisition of
semantic knowledge.

DOI: 10.1016/s0361-9230(97)00381-x 
PMID: 9510426  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

