

3607. Brain Res Bull. 1998;45(3):319-26.

The role of the central cholinergic projections in cognition: implications of the
effects of scopolamine on discrimination learning by monkeys.

Harder JA(1), Baker HF, Ridley RM.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Comparative Cognition Team, Department of Experimental Psychology,
Cambridge, UK.

In humans, administration of the cholinergic antagonist scopolamine impairs the
encoding of information into long-term memory and has effects on other cognitive 
processes. It has been supposed that it is inhibition of the rising cholinergic
projections from the basal forebrain, specifically from the basal nucleus of
Meynert (NBM) to the neocortex and from the medial septum/vertical limb of the
diagonal band of Broca (MS/VDB) to the hippocampus, that results in these
cognitive impairments. In this paper, we describe the effects of scopolamine
treatment in monkeys on learning different sorts of visual discrimination and
visuospatial conditional tasks and compare these results to the effects of
lesions of the rising cholinergic projections. Experiments in rodents in which
these projections have been selectively destroyed have failed to produce a
consensus view of the functions of these two areas. In particular, highly
specific immunotoxic lesions of the NBM have largely failed to produce changes in
task performance that can be interpreted as resulting from a cognitive
impairment. In monkeys, lesions of the NBM produce modest or short-lasting,
impairments in visual discrimination learning, retention, and reversal, whereas
lesions of the MS/VDB produce large and permanent impairments of certain types of
conditional learning. Similar impairments produced by scopolamine in monkeys and 
additive effects of lesions of the NBM or MS/VDB with scopolamine suggest that
scopolamine has these effects by acting on the rising cholinergic pathways rather
than on other cholinergic systems in the brain. It is argued that the rising
cholinergic projections sustain the functions of the target areas; in the case of
the hippocampus in humans, the function is usually regarded as being the analysis
of information in a way that is pertinent to the formation of episodic memories
and in the case of the neocortex, is the analysis of information in a manner that
is relevant to the cognitive processing of on-going events and the acquisition of
semantic knowledge.

DOI: 10.1016/s0361-9230(97)00381-x 
PMID: 9510426  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3608. Anticancer Res. 1997 Nov-Dec;17(6D):4479-82.

Comutagenesis-IV in vitro metabolism of the comutagen 2-amino-3-methylpyridine:
species differences and metabolic interaction with norharman.

Altuntas TG(1), Gorrod JW.

Author information: 
(1)Chelsea Department of Pharmacy, King's College London, University of London,
U.K.

The metabolism of 2-amino-3-methylpyridine (2A3MP) in vitro has been investigated
using the rat, rabbit, dog, marmoset, guinea pig and hamster hepatic microsomes
and S9 supernatants (10,000 g fraction). Species differences were observed in the
in vitro formation of 2-amino-3-methylpyridine-N-oxide (2A3MPNO),
2-amino-3-hydroxymethylpyridine (2A3HMP) and 2-amino-3-methyl-5-hydroxypyridine
(2A3M5HP). The order of activity for 2A3MPNO using hepatic microsomes was dog >
rat > rabbit > guinea pig > marmoset > hamster, for 2A3HMP dog > hamster > guinea
pig > rat > rabbit > marmoset, for 2A3M5HP rabbit > hamster > dog > rat > guinea 
pig > marmoset. When hepatic S9 supernatants from various uninduced species were 
used, rabbit was more active for the production of 2A3MPNO and 2A3M5HP whilst
hamster was more effective for the formation of 2A3HMP. Pretreatment of rats with
arochlor 1254 enhanced the formation of all metabolites. No species produced a
metabolite having the properties of 2-hydroxylamino-3-methylpyridine or further
oxidation or condensation products. The present study did not show the presence
of any new metabolite after co-incubation of 2A3MP with norharman.


PMID: 9494554  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

