

3608. Anticancer Res. 1997 Nov-Dec;17(6D):4479-82.

Comutagenesis-IV in vitro metabolism of the comutagen 2-amino-3-methylpyridine:
species differences and metabolic interaction with norharman.

Altuntas TG(1), Gorrod JW.

Author information: 
(1)Chelsea Department of Pharmacy, King's College London, University of London,
U.K.

The metabolism of 2-amino-3-methylpyridine (2A3MP) in vitro has been investigated
using the rat, rabbit, dog, marmoset, guinea pig and hamster hepatic microsomes
and S9 supernatants (10,000 g fraction). Species differences were observed in the
in vitro formation of 2-amino-3-methylpyridine-N-oxide (2A3MPNO),
2-amino-3-hydroxymethylpyridine (2A3HMP) and 2-amino-3-methyl-5-hydroxypyridine
(2A3M5HP). The order of activity for 2A3MPNO using hepatic microsomes was dog >
rat > rabbit > guinea pig > marmoset > hamster, for 2A3HMP dog > hamster > guinea
pig > rat > rabbit > marmoset, for 2A3M5HP rabbit > hamster > dog > rat > guinea 
pig > marmoset. When hepatic S9 supernatants from various uninduced species were 
used, rabbit was more active for the production of 2A3MPNO and 2A3M5HP whilst
hamster was more effective for the formation of 2A3HMP. Pretreatment of rats with
arochlor 1254 enhanced the formation of all metabolites. No species produced a
metabolite having the properties of 2-hydroxylamino-3-methylpyridine or further
oxidation or condensation products. The present study did not show the presence
of any new metabolite after co-incubation of 2A3MP with norharman.


PMID: 9494554  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3609. J Mol Evol. 1997 Dec;45(6):610-8.

Unexpected conservation of the X-linked color vision gene in nocturnal
prosimians: evidence from two bush babies.

Zhou YH(1), Hewett-Emmett D, Ward JP, Li WH.

Author information: 
(1)Human Genetics Center, School of Public Health, University of Texas, Houston
77225, USA.

Bush babies have had a long history of nocturnal life and it would be interesting
to know whether their color vision genes have become degenerate. Therefore, we
used PCR techniques to sequence the X-linked pigment gene of two of these
nocturnal prosimians: Galago senegalensis and Otolemur garnettii. Southern
hybridization of genomic DNA of G. senegalensis showed a single X-linked pigment 
gene. Interestingly, the deduced pigment sequences of the two bush babies are
identical. By comparing the X-linked pigments of bush baby, human, squirrel
monkey, and marmoset, 38 variable positions were identified. At those positions
that may cause a spectral shift, the bush baby pigment has identical or
biochemically similar residues to those of the marmoset cone pigment with a
spectral peak of 543 nm. This result is consistent with the estimate of 544-545
nm for the spectral peak of the X-linked pigment of Otolemur crassicaudatus,
which is closely related to Otolemur garnettii. The neighbor-joining tree of
mammalian X-linked pigments showed a significantly shorter branch in the bush
baby lineage than in other primate lineages. A relative rate test showed that the
nonsynonymous substitution rate of the bush baby X-linked pigment gene is about
three times slower than that of the human red pigment gene, though the synonymous
substitution rates of the two genes are similar. The slower nonsynonymous rate in
the bush baby lineage suggests that the bush baby X-linked pigment gene is under 
functional constraints, in spite of its nocturnal life. Two radical changes at
positions in the intradiskal surface next to the sixth transmembrane domain were 
observed in the X-linked cone pigment of bush babies but not in other primates.
They are changes from Ala to Ser and from Asn to His, which are similar in
function to the corresponding residues in rhodopsins. These two changes may be of
importance for dim light sensitivity, which is consistent with our proposal that 
the evolution of the bush baby X-linked pigment gene is under selective pressure.
In addition, the 2.5% divergence in introns 2 and 5 of the X-linked pigment gene 
between the two bush babies supports their classification into two separate
genera.

DOI: 10.1007/pl00006265 
PMID: 9419238  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

