

3609. J Mol Evol. 1997 Dec;45(6):610-8.

Unexpected conservation of the X-linked color vision gene in nocturnal
prosimians: evidence from two bush babies.

Zhou YH(1), Hewett-Emmett D, Ward JP, Li WH.

Author information: 
(1)Human Genetics Center, School of Public Health, University of Texas, Houston
77225, USA.

Bush babies have had a long history of nocturnal life and it would be interesting
to know whether their color vision genes have become degenerate. Therefore, we
used PCR techniques to sequence the X-linked pigment gene of two of these
nocturnal prosimians: Galago senegalensis and Otolemur garnettii. Southern
hybridization of genomic DNA of G. senegalensis showed a single X-linked pigment 
gene. Interestingly, the deduced pigment sequences of the two bush babies are
identical. By comparing the X-linked pigments of bush baby, human, squirrel
monkey, and marmoset, 38 variable positions were identified. At those positions
that may cause a spectral shift, the bush baby pigment has identical or
biochemically similar residues to those of the marmoset cone pigment with a
spectral peak of 543 nm. This result is consistent with the estimate of 544-545
nm for the spectral peak of the X-linked pigment of Otolemur crassicaudatus,
which is closely related to Otolemur garnettii. The neighbor-joining tree of
mammalian X-linked pigments showed a significantly shorter branch in the bush
baby lineage than in other primate lineages. A relative rate test showed that the
nonsynonymous substitution rate of the bush baby X-linked pigment gene is about
three times slower than that of the human red pigment gene, though the synonymous
substitution rates of the two genes are similar. The slower nonsynonymous rate in
the bush baby lineage suggests that the bush baby X-linked pigment gene is under 
functional constraints, in spite of its nocturnal life. Two radical changes at
positions in the intradiskal surface next to the sixth transmembrane domain were 
observed in the X-linked cone pigment of bush babies but not in other primates.
They are changes from Ala to Ser and from Asn to His, which are similar in
function to the corresponding residues in rhodopsins. These two changes may be of
importance for dim light sensitivity, which is consistent with our proposal that 
the evolution of the bush baby X-linked pigment gene is under selective pressure.
In addition, the 2.5% divergence in introns 2 and 5 of the X-linked pigment gene 
between the two bush babies supports their classification into two separate
genera.

DOI: 10.1007/pl00006265 
PMID: 9419238  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3610. Gene. 1997 Dec 31;205(1-2):59-71.

Sequences of the primate epsilon-globin gene: implications for systematics of the
marmosets and other New World primates.

Porter CA(1), Czelusniak J, Schneider H, Schneider MP, Sampaio I, Goodman M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy and Cell Biology, Wayne State University School of
Medicine, Detroit, MI 48201, USA.

Sequences of the epsilon-globin gene were determined for five species of
marmosets, along with approximately 2 kb of 5' flanking sequence. An analysis of 
these data, compared with those of other primates strongly supports the
classification of Callithrix jacchus and C. geoffroyi into the jacchus group, and
C. argentata and C. mauesi into the argentata group. The pygmy marmoset, formerly
identified as Cebuella pygmaea joined strongly to the argentata group, indicating
that without the pygmy marmoset the genus Callithrix would be paraphyletic. Our
data support recent studies which indicate that C. pygmaea should be included in 
the genus Callithrix. Relationships among other primates were as indicated by
previous studies of epsilon-globin sequences. Divergence times were estimated
according to a local molecular clock. These calculations indicated the divergence
of C. mauesi and C. argentata to be approximately 1.6-1.9 Myr (million years
ago), and the most recent common ancestor of the marmosets to be between 4.5 and 
4.7 Myr. The latter estimate corresponds well to the date of 4.6 Myr calculated
from an independent data set.

DOI: 10.1016/s0378-1119(97)00473-3 
PMID: 9461380  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

