

3616. Rev Bras Biol. 1997 Nov;57(4):563-70.

Hand preference during behavioral tests and spontaneous activity in two species
of common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus and Callithrix penicillata).

Guerra RF(1), da Silveira NL, Bernardi N, Legal EJ.

Author information: 
(1)Universidade Federal de Santa Catarina, Departamento de Psicologia,
Florianópolis, Brazil. rfguerra@cfh.ufsc.br

Hand preference in two adult C. jacchus (one male and one female) and five C.
penicillata (three adult females and two 70-day-old male and female infants) was 
examined in this study. Animals were housed in large wire mesh cages and daily
tested twice during 40 consecutive days in 15-minute experimental sessions. Tests
were carried out with dog food pellets and were as follows: 1) food taking from a
glass cylinder (12 cm long x 5 cm diameter), 2) food taking from an opaque
plastic flask (11 cm long x 9.5 cm diameter) behind wire mesh, 3) food taking
under the cage floor and 4) spontaneous activity (food manipulation,
self-grooming and scratching behavior, and grasping wire mesh). It was observed
that 1) subjects exhibit a high manual ability in all testing conditions, 2) hand
biases occurred, but the subjects either reversed hand preference or the
preference was ambiguous as the performances are examined in a longitudinal
perspective, 3) hand biases were clearly more visible in test 1, which may be due
to the complexity of this task itself, 4) hand biases were not similar in all
testing conditions--i.e., subjects were left--in one test and right-handed in
another-, and 5) the main results were very similar in both C. jacchus and C.
penicillata and seem to be not dependent on either sex or age.


PMID: 9440356  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3617. J Med Primatol. 1997 Dec;26(6):299-306.

Ultrasonographic and hormonal monitoring of pregnancy in the saddle back tamarin,
Saguinus fuscicollis.

Kuederling I(1), Heistermann M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Reproductive Biology, German Primate Centre, Göttingen, Germany.

Ultrasonography was used in six saddle back tamarin females (Saguinus
fuscicollis) to diagnose pregnancy, monitor the patterns of uterine growth and
embryonic/foetal development and examine the incidence loss of single
embryos/foetuses. Pregnancy was reliably diagnosed 17 days after conception, 10
days earlier than by plasma progesterone measurement. The patterns of uterine and
embryonic/foetal growth paralleled those reported for the common marmoset,
including a delay in embryonic development. The results support the hypothesis of
retardation of organogenesis in most callitrichid species. Individual embryos
could be reliably identified from day 50 of pregnancy; a loss of single
embryos/foetuses after this stage did not occur. All pregnancies were carried to 
term, resulting in five times twins and one singleton. The smaller litter size
compared to the common marmoset may be due to loss of single embryos at earlier
stages of pregnancy or to a lower ovulation rate.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0684.1997.tb00058.x 
PMID: 9438223  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

