

3620. J Endocrinol. 1997 Nov;155(2):377-86.

IGF-I variants which bind poorly to IGF-binding proteins show more potent and
prolonged hypoglycaemic action than native IGF-I in pigs and marmoset monkeys.

Tomas FM(1), Walton PE, Dunshea FR, Ballard FJ.

Author information: 
(1)Cooperative Research Centre for Tissue Growth and Repair, Adelaide, South
Australia, Australia.

The relative acute hypoglycaemic potencies of IGF-I and several variants of IGF-I
which bind poorly to the IGF-I binding proteins (IGFBPs) have been examined in
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) and the pig. In the marmoset study, IGF-I and
des(1-3)IGF-I were compared in anaesthetised and conscious animals in a range of 
bolus doses from 42 to 270 micrograms/kg body weight. In the pig study, IGF-I was
compared with four variants, des(1-3)IGF-I long-IGF-I, R3IGF-I and long-R3IGF-I
(LR3IGF-I), which show reduced affinity for the IGFBPs as well as with insulin.
Doses in the pig were 20 and 50 micrograms/kg body weight for the IGFs and 3
micrograms/kg for insulin. In each study serial blood samples were taken from 30 
min before to 4 h after the bolus injection. Plasma glucose levels were decreased
in a dose-responsive manner with the pig more sensitive than either the conscious
or anaesthetised marmoset (maximum lowering 4.8, 3.7 and 2.5 mmol/l
respectively). The IGF variants were consistently 2- to 3-fold more potent than
IGF-I in each animal for lowering of plasma glucose to the nadir, with the
potency reflecting the relative affinities for binding to the IGFBPs and the
IGF-I receptors. Thus, hypoglycaemic potency was in the order IGF-I < long-IGF-I 
< R3IGF-I approximately LR3IGF-I < des (1-3)IGF-I. Notably the variants
suppressed plasma glucose levels over a much longer period than did IGF-I, the
cumulative suppression over four hours showing an approximately 4- to 8-fold
increase in the extent of hypoglycaemia. The prolonged suppression was not simply
proportional to the hypoglycaemic nadir; at doses equipotent for glucose
lowering, the cumulative hypoglycaemic effect for the variants in either species 
was about 2-fold that for IGF-I. The differential effect of the variants in the
marmoset could not be accounted for by correlated changes in plasma insulin,
IGF-I or IGFBP levels in plasma. Indirect effects via inhibition of glucagon, or 
direct effects via hepatic insulin receptors are postulated to account for the
results. There was a dose-related reduction in plasma amino acids in the pig but,
unlike the case for plasma glucose, only one analogue, LR3IGF-I was more potent
than IGF-I. The response to LR3IGF-I was accentuated at the high dosage but on
the basis of the other variants tested this effect could not be ascribed to
either of the incorporated molecular variations. Despite their more rapid
clearance from the circulation, variants of IGF-I which show lower affinity for
binding to IGFBPs show proportionately superior potency for sustained
hypoglycaemic action. Since our data were obtained in animal models of accepted
relevance to humans these results point to the possible superior efficacy of the 
variants, especially des(1-3)IGF-I, over IGF-I for use as an adjunct to insulin
treatment of hyperglycaemic conditions.

DOI: 10.1677/joe.0.1550377 
PMID: 9415072  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3621. J Comp Neurol. 1997 Nov 3;387(4):547-67.

The second visual area in the marmoset monkey: visuotopic organisation,
magnification factors, architectonical boundaries, and modularity.

Rosa MG(1), Fritsches KA, Elston GN.

Author information: 
(1)Vision, Touch & Hearing Research Centre, Department of Physiology and
Pharmacology, The University of Queensland, Australia. M.Rosa@vthrc.uq.edu.au

The organisation of the second visual area (V2) in marmoset monkeys was studied
by means of extracellular recordings of responses to visual stimulation and
examination of myelin- and cytochrome oxidase-stained sections. Area V2 forms a
continuous cortical belt of variable width (1-2 mm adjacent to the foveal
representation of V1, and 3-3.5 mm near the midline and on the tentorial surface)
bordering V1 on the lateral, dorsal, medial, and tentorial surfaces of the
occipital lobe. The total surface area of V2 is approximately 100 mm2, or about
50% of the surface area of V1 in the same individuals. In each hemisphere, the
receptive fields of V2 neurones cover the entire contralateral visual hemifield, 
forming an ordered visuotopic representation. As in other simians, the dorsal and
ventral halves of V2 represent the lower and upper contralateral quadrants,
respectively, with little invasion of the ipsilateral hemifield. The
representation of the vertical meridian forms the caudal border of V2, with V1,
whereas a field discontinuity approximately coincident with the horizontal
meridian forms the rostral border of V2, with other visually responsive areas.
The bridge of cortex connecting dorsal and ventral V2 contains neurones with
receptive fields centred within 1 degree of the centre of the fovea. The
visuotopy, size, shape and location of V2 show little variation among
individuals. Analysis of cortical magnification factor (CMF) revealed that the V2
map of the visual field is highly anisotropic: for any given eccentricity, the
CMF is approximately twice as large in the dimension parallel to the V1/V2 border
as it is perpendicular to this border. Moreover, comparison of V2 and V1 in the
same individuals demonstrated that the representation of the central visual field
is emphasised in V2, relative to V1. Approximately half of the surface area of V2
is dedicated to the representation of the central 5 degrees of the visual field. 
Calculations based on the CMF, receptive field scatter, and receptive field size 
revealed that the point-image size measured parallel to the V1/V2 border (2-3 mm)
equals the width of a full cycle of cytochrome oxidase stripes in V2, suggesting 
a close correspondence between physiological and anatomical estimates of the
dimensions of modular components in this area.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1096-9861(19971103)387:4<547::aid-cne6>3.0.co;2-2 
PMID: 9373013  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

