

3621. J Comp Neurol. 1997 Nov 3;387(4):547-67.

The second visual area in the marmoset monkey: visuotopic organisation,
magnification factors, architectonical boundaries, and modularity.

Rosa MG(1), Fritsches KA, Elston GN.

Author information: 
(1)Vision, Touch & Hearing Research Centre, Department of Physiology and
Pharmacology, The University of Queensland, Australia. M.Rosa@vthrc.uq.edu.au

The organisation of the second visual area (V2) in marmoset monkeys was studied
by means of extracellular recordings of responses to visual stimulation and
examination of myelin- and cytochrome oxidase-stained sections. Area V2 forms a
continuous cortical belt of variable width (1-2 mm adjacent to the foveal
representation of V1, and 3-3.5 mm near the midline and on the tentorial surface)
bordering V1 on the lateral, dorsal, medial, and tentorial surfaces of the
occipital lobe. The total surface area of V2 is approximately 100 mm2, or about
50% of the surface area of V1 in the same individuals. In each hemisphere, the
receptive fields of V2 neurones cover the entire contralateral visual hemifield, 
forming an ordered visuotopic representation. As in other simians, the dorsal and
ventral halves of V2 represent the lower and upper contralateral quadrants,
respectively, with little invasion of the ipsilateral hemifield. The
representation of the vertical meridian forms the caudal border of V2, with V1,
whereas a field discontinuity approximately coincident with the horizontal
meridian forms the rostral border of V2, with other visually responsive areas.
The bridge of cortex connecting dorsal and ventral V2 contains neurones with
receptive fields centred within 1 degree of the centre of the fovea. The
visuotopy, size, shape and location of V2 show little variation among
individuals. Analysis of cortical magnification factor (CMF) revealed that the V2
map of the visual field is highly anisotropic: for any given eccentricity, the
CMF is approximately twice as large in the dimension parallel to the V1/V2 border
as it is perpendicular to this border. Moreover, comparison of V2 and V1 in the
same individuals demonstrated that the representation of the central visual field
is emphasised in V2, relative to V1. Approximately half of the surface area of V2
is dedicated to the representation of the central 5 degrees of the visual field. 
Calculations based on the CMF, receptive field scatter, and receptive field size 
revealed that the point-image size measured parallel to the V1/V2 border (2-3 mm)
equals the width of a full cycle of cytochrome oxidase stripes in V2, suggesting 
a close correspondence between physiological and anatomical estimates of the
dimensions of modular components in this area.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1096-9861(19971103)387:4<547::aid-cne6>3.0.co;2-2 
PMID: 9373013  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3622. J Neurosci. 1997 Dec 1;17(23):9285-97.

Dissociable forms of inhibitory control within prefrontal cortex with an analog
of the Wisconsin Card Sort Test: restriction to novel situations and independence
from "on-line" processing.

Dias R(1), Robbins TW, Roberts AC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, CB2
3EB, United Kingdom.

Attentional set-shifting and discrimination reversal are sensitive to prefrontal 
damage in the marmoset in a manner qualitatively similar to that seen in man and 
Old World monkeys, respectively (Dias et al., 1996b). Preliminary findings have
demonstrated that although lateral but not orbital prefrontal cortex is the
critical locus in shifting an attentional set between perceptual dimensions,
orbital but not lateral prefrontal cortex is the critical locus in reversing a
stimulus-reward association within a particular perceptual dimension (Dias et
al., 1996a). The present study presents this analysis in full and extends the
results in three main ways by demonstrating that (1) mechanisms of inhibitory
control and "on-line" processing are independent within the prefrontal cortex,
(2) impairments in inhibitory control induced by prefrontal damage are restricted
to novel situations, and (3) those prefrontal areas involved in the suppression
of previously established response sets are not involved in the acquisition of
such response sets. These findings suggest that inhibitory control is a general
process that operates across functionally distinct regions within the prefrontal 
cortex. Although damage to lateral prefrontal cortex causes a loss of inhibitory 
control in attentional selection, damage to orbitofrontal cortex causes a loss of
inhibitory control in affective processing. These findings provide an explanation
for the apparent discrepancy between human and nonhuman primate studies in which 
disinhibition as measured on the Wisconsin Card Sort Test is associated with
dorsolateral prefrontal damage, whereas disinhibition as measured on
discrimination reversal is associated with orbitofrontal damage.


PMCID: PMC6573594
PMID: 9364074  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

