

3622. J Neurosci. 1997 Dec 1;17(23):9285-97.

Dissociable forms of inhibitory control within prefrontal cortex with an analog
of the Wisconsin Card Sort Test: restriction to novel situations and independence
from "on-line" processing.

Dias R(1), Robbins TW, Roberts AC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, CB2
3EB, United Kingdom.

Attentional set-shifting and discrimination reversal are sensitive to prefrontal 
damage in the marmoset in a manner qualitatively similar to that seen in man and 
Old World monkeys, respectively (Dias et al., 1996b). Preliminary findings have
demonstrated that although lateral but not orbital prefrontal cortex is the
critical locus in shifting an attentional set between perceptual dimensions,
orbital but not lateral prefrontal cortex is the critical locus in reversing a
stimulus-reward association within a particular perceptual dimension (Dias et
al., 1996a). The present study presents this analysis in full and extends the
results in three main ways by demonstrating that (1) mechanisms of inhibitory
control and "on-line" processing are independent within the prefrontal cortex,
(2) impairments in inhibitory control induced by prefrontal damage are restricted
to novel situations, and (3) those prefrontal areas involved in the suppression
of previously established response sets are not involved in the acquisition of
such response sets. These findings suggest that inhibitory control is a general
process that operates across functionally distinct regions within the prefrontal 
cortex. Although damage to lateral prefrontal cortex causes a loss of inhibitory 
control in attentional selection, damage to orbitofrontal cortex causes a loss of
inhibitory control in affective processing. These findings provide an explanation
for the apparent discrepancy between human and nonhuman primate studies in which 
disinhibition as measured on the Wisconsin Card Sort Test is associated with
dorsolateral prefrontal damage, whereas disinhibition as measured on
discrimination reversal is associated with orbitofrontal damage.


PMCID: PMC6573594
PMID: 9364074  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3623. Virology. 1997 Nov 24;238(2):344-52.

Epstein-Barr virus induces GM-CSF synthesis by monocytes: effect on EBV-induced
IL-1 and IL-1 receptor antagonist production in neutrophils.

Roberge CJ(1), Larochelle B, Rola-Pleszczynski M, Gosselin J.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Viral Immunology, CHUL, Laval University, Quebec, Canada.

Neutrophils play an important role in the control of viral infections by
releasing a variety of potent agents. We previously demonstrated that
Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) binds to human neutrophils and stimulates cytokine
synthesis including interleukin-1 (IL-1) and IL-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1Ra).
Since neutrophil functions are known to be modulated by the priming effect of
granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF), we therefore
investigated the cellular source of GM-CSF synthesis following treatment of
leukocytes with EBV and the effect of GM-CSF on the production of IL-1, IL-1Ra,
and superoxide by EBV-treated neutrophils. In enriched-cell populations, only
monocytes were found to produce GM-CSF in response to EBV, which was maximal
after 12 h of incubation. The results obtained with UV-irradiated particles or
EBV neutralized with monoclonal antibody 72A1 suggest that contact between the
cell and the gp350 of the viral envelope is sufficient to induce the release of
GM-CSF. On the other hand, GM-CSF differentially upregulated EBV-induced IL-1 and
IL-1Ra production by neutrophils. Pretreatment of neutrophils with GM-CSF prior
to EBV activation synergistically enhanced the production of IL-1 alpha and IL-1 
beta, but only marginally affected IL-1Ra synthesis. In addition, GM-CSF was also
found to synergistically enhance the superoxide production by neutrophils in
response to EBV. Molecular analysis showed that GM-CSF did not alter the IL-1
beta and IL-1Ra mRNA synthesis induced by EBV, suggesting that GM-CSF could act
at a posttranslational level. Local production of GM-CSF by monocytes in tissues 
invaded by EBV could serve to potentiate the host defense mechanisms directed
toward the destruction of the infectious virus.

DOI: 10.1006/viro.1997.8852 
PMID: 9400607  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

