

3629. Vision Res. 1997 Oct;37(19):2649-60.

Temporal properties of marmoset lateral geniculate cells.

Kremers J(1), Weiss S, Zrenner E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Ophthalmology, University of T체bingen Eye Hospital,
Germany. jan.kremers@uni-tuebingen.de

We measured the temporal modulation transfer functions (TMTFs) of cells in the
marmoset lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) at three different luminance levels,
and described the responses with a linear model. It was found that qualitatively 
there are many similarities with the temporal response properties of macaque and 
marmoset retinal ganglion cells. M-cells displayed stronger attenuation at lower 
temporal frequencies, and showed more nonlinearities (such as saturation and a
contrast gain control) than P-cells. We therefore propose that the temporal
properties of the visual system of New and Old World monkeys are similar at least
up to the LGN. However, there are some quantitative differences, indicating that 
response alterations take place at the stage of synaptic transmission in the LGN.
The most important are an attenuation of the responses to higher temporal
frequencies and the smaller differences between parvo- and magnocellular cell
responsivities. Cell responses to square-wave modulation were also measured and
compared with predictions from a linear systems analysis. The linear systems
analysis gave reasonable predicted responses to square-wave modulation, but these
predictions were poor than those for retinal ganglion cells, indicating that
additional nonlinearities are introduced at the synaptic transition in the LGN.

DOI: 10.1016/s0042-6989(97)00090-4 
PMID: 9373665  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3630. J Virol. 1997 Dec;71(12):9124-33.

The superantigen-homologous viral immediate-early gene ie14/vsag in herpesvirus
saimiri-transformed human T cells.

Knappe A(1), Hiller C, Thurau M, Wittmann S, Hofmann H, Fleckenstein B,
Fickenscher H.

Author information: 
(1)Institut f체r Klinische und Molekulare Virologie,
Friedrich-Alexander-Universit채t Erlangen-N체rnberg, Erlangen, Germany.

Herpesvirus saimiri C488 transforms human T lymphocytes to stable growth in
culture. The growth-transformed human T cells harbor the viral genome in a
nonintegrated episomal form without production of virus particles. In these
cells, virus gene expression was previously found to be confined to the
transforming genes stpC and tip. In order to analyze virus gene expression in
more detail, we applied a subtractive hybridization technique and compared
stimulated virus-transformed cells with uninfected parental T cells of the same
donor. A number of known T-cell activation genes were isolated. Viral stpC/tip
cDNAs were enriched after subtraction. In addition, the viral immediate-early,
superantigen-homologous gene ie14/vsag was represented by numerous cDNA clones
that comprised the entire spliced transcript. Whereas a weak basal expression of 
ie14/vsag was detected by reverse transcription-PCR only, the phorbol
ester-induced transcripts were readily shown by Northern blotting. ie14/vsag,
which before had been classified as a major immediate-early gene of herpesvirus
saimiri, is localized within a highly conserved region with extensive homologies 
to the cellular genome. Mutant viruses without the ie14/vsag gene are replication
competent and fully capable of transforming human and marmoset T cells. Since
ie14/vsag is transiently expressed after stimulation, it may increase T-cell
proliferation in an activation-dependent and superantigen-like but apparently
Vbeta-independent way.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.71.12.9124-9133.1997 
PMCID: PMC230213
PMID: 9371569  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

