

3630. J Virol. 1997 Dec;71(12):9124-33.

The superantigen-homologous viral immediate-early gene ie14/vsag in herpesvirus
saimiri-transformed human T cells.

Knappe A(1), Hiller C, Thurau M, Wittmann S, Hofmann H, Fleckenstein B,
Fickenscher H.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Klinische und Molekulare Virologie,
Friedrich-Alexander-Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg, Erlangen, Germany.

Herpesvirus saimiri C488 transforms human T lymphocytes to stable growth in
culture. The growth-transformed human T cells harbor the viral genome in a
nonintegrated episomal form without production of virus particles. In these
cells, virus gene expression was previously found to be confined to the
transforming genes stpC and tip. In order to analyze virus gene expression in
more detail, we applied a subtractive hybridization technique and compared
stimulated virus-transformed cells with uninfected parental T cells of the same
donor. A number of known T-cell activation genes were isolated. Viral stpC/tip
cDNAs were enriched after subtraction. In addition, the viral immediate-early,
superantigen-homologous gene ie14/vsag was represented by numerous cDNA clones
that comprised the entire spliced transcript. Whereas a weak basal expression of 
ie14/vsag was detected by reverse transcription-PCR only, the phorbol
ester-induced transcripts were readily shown by Northern blotting. ie14/vsag,
which before had been classified as a major immediate-early gene of herpesvirus
saimiri, is localized within a highly conserved region with extensive homologies 
to the cellular genome. Mutant viruses without the ie14/vsag gene are replication
competent and fully capable of transforming human and marmoset T cells. Since
ie14/vsag is transiently expressed after stimulation, it may increase T-cell
proliferation in an activation-dependent and superantigen-like but apparently
Vbeta-independent way.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.71.12.9124-9133.1997 
PMCID: PMC230213
PMID: 9371569  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3631. J Reprod Fertil. 1997 Sep;111(1):109-19.

Cell death during luteal regression in the marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus).

Young FM(1), Illingworth PJ, Lunn SF, Harrison DJ, Fraser HM.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Reproductive Biology Unit, Centre for Reproductive Biology, Edinburgh, UK.

The mechanism controlling luteal regression in primates is unknown but may
involve cell death by apoptosis. Marmoset ovaries containing corpora lutea were
studied at different stages of the normal ovarian cycle. Two additional groups of
animals underwent induced luteolysis with either the prostaglandin F2 alpha
analogue, cloprostenol, or the GnRH antagonist, antarelix, at the mid-luteal
phase. Apoptosis in ovarian sections was estimated both by counting the number of
cells exhibiting morphological features of apoptosis and by in situ labelling the
3' ends of the DNA fragments with digoxigenin-11-dUTP. Apoptosis was found to be 
significantly increased in corpora lutea in the early follicular phase
(equivalent to the later stage of luteal lifespan) compared with the mid-luteal
phase corpora lutea, as judged by either computerized morphometry or 3' end
labelling. Apoptosis was also increased by the administration of either
cloprostenol or antarelix when using the 3' end labelling end point, but only
after cloprostenol when using computerized morphometry. A further form of cell
death, characterized by the formation of cytoplasmic vacuoles, was also observed 
in corpora lutea undergoing both induced and spontaneous regression. These
results demonstrate that apoptosis within the primate corpus luteum is increased 
in both physiological and induced luteal regression. In addition, they show that 
an alternative form of cell death is involved in both spontaneous and induced
luteal regression, although the relative importance of the two mechanisms remains
to be determined.

DOI: 10.1530/jrf.0.1110109 
PMID: 9370974  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

