

3631. J Reprod Fertil. 1997 Sep;111(1):109-19.

Cell death during luteal regression in the marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus).

Young FM(1), Illingworth PJ, Lunn SF, Harrison DJ, Fraser HM.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Reproductive Biology Unit, Centre for Reproductive Biology, Edinburgh, UK.

The mechanism controlling luteal regression in primates is unknown but may
involve cell death by apoptosis. Marmoset ovaries containing corpora lutea were
studied at different stages of the normal ovarian cycle. Two additional groups of
animals underwent induced luteolysis with either the prostaglandin F2 alpha
analogue, cloprostenol, or the GnRH antagonist, antarelix, at the mid-luteal
phase. Apoptosis in ovarian sections was estimated both by counting the number of
cells exhibiting morphological features of apoptosis and by in situ labelling the
3' ends of the DNA fragments with digoxigenin-11-dUTP. Apoptosis was found to be 
significantly increased in corpora lutea in the early follicular phase
(equivalent to the later stage of luteal lifespan) compared with the mid-luteal
phase corpora lutea, as judged by either computerized morphometry or 3' end
labelling. Apoptosis was also increased by the administration of either
cloprostenol or antarelix when using the 3' end labelling end point, but only
after cloprostenol when using computerized morphometry. A further form of cell
death, characterized by the formation of cytoplasmic vacuoles, was also observed 
in corpora lutea undergoing both induced and spontaneous regression. These
results demonstrate that apoptosis within the primate corpus luteum is increased 
in both physiological and induced luteal regression. In addition, they show that 
an alternative form of cell death is involved in both spontaneous and induced
luteal regression, although the relative importance of the two mechanisms remains
to be determined.

DOI: 10.1530/jrf.0.1110109 
PMID: 9370974  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3632. Brain Res. 1997 Sep 12;768(1-2):147-56.

Vasopressin in the forebrain of common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus): studies
with in situ hybridization, immunocytochemistry and receptor autoradiography.

Wang Z(1), Toloczko D, Young LJ, Moody K, Newman JD, Insel TR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Emory University School of
Medicine, Atlanta, GA 30322, USA. zwang@unix.cc.emory.edu

The distribution of vasopressin (AVP) producing cells, their projections and AVP 
receptors was examined in the brain of common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus)
using in situ hybridization, immunocytochemistry and receptor autoradiography.
Clusters of cells labeled for AVP mRNA or stained for AVP immunoreactivity
(AVP-ir) were found in the paraventricular (PVN), supraoptic (SON) and
suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN) of the hypothalamus. Scattered AVP producing cells
were also found in the lateral hypothalamus and the bed nucleus of the stria
terminalis (BST). Neither AVP mRNA-labeled nor AVP-ir cells were detected in the 
amygdala. Although AVP-ir fibers were evident outside of the
hypothalamic-neurohypophyseal tract, a plexus of fibers in the lateral septum, as
observed in the rat brain, was not detected. Receptor autoradiography using
125I-linear-AVP revealed specific binding for AVP receptors in the nucleus
accumbens, diagonal band, lateral septum, the BST, SCN, PVN, amygdala,
anterodorsal and ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus, indicating sites for
central AVP action in the marmoset brain. Together, these data provide a
comprehensive picture of AVP pathways in the marmoset brain, demonstrating
differences from rodents in the distribution of cell bodies, fibers and
receptors.

DOI: 10.1016/s0006-8993(97)00636-7 
PMID: 9369311  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

