

3632. Brain Res. 1997 Sep 12;768(1-2):147-56.

Vasopressin in the forebrain of common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus): studies
with in situ hybridization, immunocytochemistry and receptor autoradiography.

Wang Z(1), Toloczko D, Young LJ, Moody K, Newman JD, Insel TR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Emory University School of
Medicine, Atlanta, GA 30322, USA. zwang@unix.cc.emory.edu

The distribution of vasopressin (AVP) producing cells, their projections and AVP 
receptors was examined in the brain of common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus)
using in situ hybridization, immunocytochemistry and receptor autoradiography.
Clusters of cells labeled for AVP mRNA or stained for AVP immunoreactivity
(AVP-ir) were found in the paraventricular (PVN), supraoptic (SON) and
suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN) of the hypothalamus. Scattered AVP producing cells
were also found in the lateral hypothalamus and the bed nucleus of the stria
terminalis (BST). Neither AVP mRNA-labeled nor AVP-ir cells were detected in the 
amygdala. Although AVP-ir fibers were evident outside of the
hypothalamic-neurohypophyseal tract, a plexus of fibers in the lateral septum, as
observed in the rat brain, was not detected. Receptor autoradiography using
125I-linear-AVP revealed specific binding for AVP receptors in the nucleus
accumbens, diagonal band, lateral septum, the BST, SCN, PVN, amygdala,
anterodorsal and ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus, indicating sites for
central AVP action in the marmoset brain. Together, these data provide a
comprehensive picture of AVP pathways in the marmoset brain, demonstrating
differences from rodents in the distribution of cell bodies, fibers and
receptors.

DOI: 10.1016/s0006-8993(97)00636-7 
PMID: 9369311  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3633. Brain Res. 1997 Sep 5;767(2):235-8.

Increased dopamine turnover in the putamen after MPTP treatment in common
marmosets.

Nomoto M(1), Iwata SI, Kaseda S, Fukuda T, Nakagawa S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Kagoshima University School of Medicine,
Sakuragaoka, Japan.

The differences in dopamine turnover rate between the putamen and the caudate
nucleus in the striatum lesioned by a neurotoxin
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) were studied in the common
marmoset, a small New World monkey. Systemic administration of MPTP damaged
equally and dose-dependently nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons projecting both
to the caudate nucleus and the putamen. The compensatory increase of dopamine
turnover, however, occurred more prominently in the putamen than in the caudate. 
The neural connection and function of the caudate nucleus and the putamen have
been differentiated anatomically or physiologically. The compensatory increase of
dopamine turnover rate is another different aspect of functions between the
caudate nucleus and the putamen. Dopaminergic neurons projecting to the putamen
showed more prominent cell loss than those projecting to the caudate in
Parkinson's disease or related disorders. The selective augmented turnover rate
of lesioned dopaminergic neurons might be, at least partly, involved with
selective degeneration of nigrostriatal neurons projecting to the putamen.

DOI: 10.1016/s0006-8993(97)00584-2 
PMID: 9367253  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

