

3633. Brain Res. 1997 Sep 5;767(2):235-8.

Increased dopamine turnover in the putamen after MPTP treatment in common
marmosets.

Nomoto M(1), Iwata SI, Kaseda S, Fukuda T, Nakagawa S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Kagoshima University School of Medicine,
Sakuragaoka, Japan.

The differences in dopamine turnover rate between the putamen and the caudate
nucleus in the striatum lesioned by a neurotoxin
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) were studied in the common
marmoset, a small New World monkey. Systemic administration of MPTP damaged
equally and dose-dependently nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons projecting both
to the caudate nucleus and the putamen. The compensatory increase of dopamine
turnover, however, occurred more prominently in the putamen than in the caudate. 
The neural connection and function of the caudate nucleus and the putamen have
been differentiated anatomically or physiologically. The compensatory increase of
dopamine turnover rate is another different aspect of functions between the
caudate nucleus and the putamen. Dopaminergic neurons projecting to the putamen
showed more prominent cell loss than those projecting to the caudate in
Parkinson's disease or related disorders. The selective augmented turnover rate
of lesioned dopaminergic neurons might be, at least partly, involved with
selective degeneration of nigrostriatal neurons projecting to the putamen.

DOI: 10.1016/s0006-8993(97)00584-2 
PMID: 9367253  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3634. Tissue Cell. 1997 Oct;29(5):525-31.

Relationship between expression of integrins and granulosa cell apoptosis in
ovarian follicles of the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Giebel J(1), Rune GM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, Ernst Moritz Arndt University, Greifswald, Germany.
giebel@rz.uni-greifswald.de

DNA fragmentation (apoptosis) was studied during the follicular, periovulatory
and luteal phase in the marmoset monkey ovary by means of terminal transferase
mediated in situ nick end labeling, and correlated with immunohistochemical
localization of integrins (beta 1, alpha 2 and alpha 6 subunits). For this
purpose a double-labeling technique was developed. During all phases, apoptosis
of granulosa cells was exclusively restricted to tertiary follicles displaying
advanced stages of atresia (as morphologically determined). During early stages
of atresia in tertiary follicles, indicated by widened intercellular spaces, no
apoptosis was seen. Staining intensities for integrins beta 1 and alpha 6 were
strong in intact primordial/primary, secondary and tertiary follicles. Integrin
expression of granulosa cells was weak in atretic tertiary follicles but not in
atretic primary or secondary follicles. Double labeling revealed that DNA
fragmentation was solely found in granulosa cells of tertiary follicles
displaying faint or absent staining for both integrin subunits. During the
periovulatory and the luteal phase, granulosa cells of atretic tertiary follicles
bordering on the basal membrane, which were referred to as luteinizing cells,
expressed the beta 1 subunit as well as the alpha 2-integrin subunit whereas
granulosa cells neighboring to the antrum were apoptotic and negative for
integrin immunoreactivity. In summary, early atresia of tertiary follicles is
first characterized by morphological alterations as wide intercellular gaps,
without any signs of granulosa cell apoptosis. Advanced stages of atresia, in
tertiary follicles however, are accompanied by apoptosis of granulosa cells and a
faint or absent staining for integrin subunits beta 1 and alpha 6. According to
recent in vitro findings, our results point to a possible relation between
granulosa cell apoptosis of tertiary follicles and integrin expression in ovarian
marmoset follicles.

DOI: 10.1016/s0040-8166(97)80053-5 
PMID: 9364802  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

