

3637. Lab Anim. 1997 Oct;31(4):289-97.

Report on primate supply for biomedical scientific work in the UK. EUPREN UK
Working Party.

Owen S(1), Thomas C, West P, Wolfensohn S, Wood M.

Author information: 
(1)University of Oxford, University Laboratory of Physiology, UK.

A Working Party of the UK group of European Primate Resources Network (EUPREN)
considered primate supply for scientific work in the UK. Through a questionnaire,
which achieved a very good response, it obtained details of primate use, sources 
and breeding in the UK and it put forward options to ensure that animal welfare
is the best possible whilst ensuring continued supply. The questionnaire showed
that contract research laboratories and pharmaceutical companies use about 80% of
the 4233 primates used annually at the moment, with the rest accounted for by
academic establishments and public sector laboratories. Fifty-four per cent are
cynomolgus macaques (Macaca fascicularis), of which nearly 90% are captive-bred
outside the European Union (EU), the remainder being bred in the UK. Nearly 90%
of cynomolgus macaques are used by only five institutions. Thirty-seven per cent 
of primates used are marmosets (Callithrix jacchus jacchus), all of which are
bred in the UK. Most of the rest are rhesus macaques (Macaca mulatta), about half
of which are captive-bred outside the EU, the other half being bred in the UK.
Overall primate use has increased from about 3000 per year in 1990 and users
predict that requirements for all species except baboons (Papio sp.) will be
maintained or increase. Marmoset breeding in the UK is already closely matched to
use, and it could be increased reasonably easily if necessary. Some of the
existing breeding centres of macaques in the UK would be prepared to consider
expanding to supply others, although investment and imported breeding stock would
be needed and it is likely that a large investment would be needed to breed a
significant fraction of the macaque use in the UK. A further problem is that the 
users of only about 10% of the cynomolgus macaques said that they could replace
this species by rhesus macaques, which are easier to breed in the UK. The
questionnaire showed that much of the use of macaques would be transferred to
other countries equally remote from the natural source countries of the animals, 
if constraints on primate use became more severe in the UK. Users felt that it is
unlikely that much of the work could be transferred to the natural source
countries themselves. A review of the literature revealed a paucity of
information on the effects of transport on primate welfare. The importance of
obtaining this information before making decisions about alternative means of
supply is stressed. Current schemes for the accreditation of primate breeders
were reviewed. A list of options is presented for discussion. Users vary so much 
in their requirements that it is unlikely that one means of supply will be
applicable to all. Animal welfare will benefit and supply will be more certain if
cooperation between those concerned (preferably through the UK group of EUPREN)
is maintained.

DOI: 10.1258/002367797780596149 
PMID: 9350698  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3638. Ann Anat. 1997 Oct;179(5):413-9.

Proliferation and apoptosis in follicles of the marmoset monkey (Callithrix
jacchus) ovary.

Giebel J(1), Hegele-Hartung C, Rune GM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, Ernst-Moritz-Arndt-University, Greifswald.

Proliferation and apoptosis were studied in ovarian follicles of immature and
pubertal marmosets and in mature marmosets during the follicular, periovulatory
and luteal phases. Proliferation was evaluated using a Ki 67 antibody and
apoptosis was assessed by in situ detection of DNA fragmentation. In the immature
animals only small follicles were present, and the expression of Ki 67 was
restricted to the granulosa cells of follicles localised near the medulla. There 
was no evidence of DNA fragmentation. In pubertal and adult animals Ki 67
expression was found in the granulosa cells of some but not all primordial and
primary follicles. In the secondary and tertiary follicles immunoreactivity was
localized in theca cells and granulosa cells. In atretic follicles
(morphologically classified) the number of Ki 67 positive granulosa cells varied.
In corpora lutea as well as in corpora lutea accessoria, staining was seen in the
nuclei of some luteal cells. During all phases of the cycle, follicles from the
secondary stage onwards were proliferating, whereas granulosa cells of primary
follicles were only stained during the follicular phase. During all phases of the
ovarian cycle apoptosis was restricted to the granulosa cells of tertiary
follicles. With regard to proliferation and apoptosis, follicles exhibiting
morphological signs of atresia can be classified as follows: (1) granulosa cells 
showing strong Ki 67 expression; (2) granulosa cells with reduced expression of
Ki 67; (3) granulosa cells devoid of Ki 67 immunoreactivity and of apoptotic
signs; (4) granulosa cells heavily stained for DNA fragmentation and not stained 
for Ki 67; (5) granulosa cells close to the antrum showing DNA fragmentation but 
luteinizing Ki 67 positive granulosa cells close to the basement membrane. In
summary, it was shown that atresia of tertiary follicles is characterised by
three consecutive stages: morphological alterations, cessation of proliferation
and finally apoptosis in tertiary follicles. Thus, our results indicate that
early atresia as evidenced by the morphological signs is not necessarily related 
to DNA fragmentation, since apoptosis is exclusively found in the granulosa cells
of advanced atretic tertiary follicles.

DOI: 10.1016/S0940-9602(97)80034-9 
PMID: 9341948  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

