

3640. Anim Behav. 1997 Oct;54(4):817-31.

Push or pull: an experimental study on imitation in marmosets

Bugnyar T(1), Huber L.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Zoology, University of Vienna

A laboratory experiment was conducted in order to explore the possibility of
imitation, that is, response learning by observation, in marmosets, Callithrix
jacchusInexperienced individuals were allowed to observe a skilful model that
demonstrated one of two possible techniques (pushing or pulling a pendulum-door) 
to get food from inside a wooden box. Their initial manipulative actions,
performed when exposed to the box in a subsequent test, were compared with those 
of naive control subjects (non-observers). The observers showed less exploratory 
behaviour than the non-observers and, more importantly, some showed a strong
tendency to use the demonstrated opening technique in the initial test phase.
This initial preference disappeared in the course of five test sessions and the
observers converged towards the simpler, alternative solution that was generally 
preferred by the non-observers. Despite fundamental individual differences in the
observer group and the failure to find a significant group effect, the results
indicate that marmosets are capable of learning simple motor skills through
conspecific observation.Copyright 1997 The Association for the Study of Animal
Behaviour1997The Association for the Study of Animal Behaviour

DOI: 10.1006/anbe.1996.0497 
PMID: 9344436 


3641. Neuroscience. 1997 Oct;80(3):717-30.

Contrasting effects of excitotoxic lesions of the prefrontal cortex on the
behavioural response to D-amphetamine and presynaptic and postsynaptic measures
of striatal dopamine function in monkeys.

Wilkinson LS(1), Dias R, Thomas KL, Augood SJ, Everitt BJ, Robbins TW, Roberts
AC.

Author information: 
(1)The Babraham Institute, Department of Neurobiology, Cambridge, U.K.

The effects of excitotoxic lesions of the prefrontal cortex on behavioural,
neurochemical and molecular indices of dopamine function in the caudate nucleus
were studied in the marmoset. The lesion, which encompassed both the lateral and 
orbital regions of prefrontal cortex, made the animals more sensitive to the
performance disrupting effects of the dopamine releasing drug, D-amphetamine, in 
a variation of the object retrieval task. Specifically, following drug
administration, the lesioned marmosets were less able to gain access to food
reward in the minimum number of responses. Analysis of the nature of the errors
suggested that the deficit was not due to inhibition of a prepotent response as
the lesioned monkeys were just as likely to make a detour reach to the unopened
side of the box as a direct "line-of-sight" reach into the unopened front of the 
box. Rather, the data indicated a general disorganization of behaviour. The
enhanced behavioural responsiveness to manipulations increasing presynaptic
dopamine function was accompanied by neurochemical changes indicating a reduced
responsiveness, as revealed by in vivo microdialysis. Thus, in lesioned animals, 
whilst there were no effects on baseline levels of extracellular dopamine in
dorsolateral caudate, evoked release, both to systemic D-amphetamine and to a
local depolarizing pulse of potassium ions, was attenuated. These opposite
effects of the prefrontal cortex lesion on behavioural and neurochemical indices 
of striatal dopamine function occurred in the absence of any changes in striatal 
dopamine receptors of the D1 and D2 subtype, as determined both by radioligand
binding assays and measurements of messenger RNA using in situ hydridization
techniques. These data provide further insight into the interactions between
prefrontal cortex and striatal dopamine function in the non-human primate. In
particular, when taken in the light of our previous studies they indicate that
following prefrontal manipulations, concurrence between behavioural and
neurochemical indices of striatal dopamine function depends, critically, on the
behavioural task. These findings are discussed with respect to the growing body
of evidence implicating abnormalities in frontostriatal neurotransmission in
complex disorders such as schizophrenia.

DOI: 10.1016/s0306-4522(97)00075-4 
PMID: 9276488  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

