

3643. Neuroscience. 1997 Nov;81(2):331-43.

Learning impairments following injection of a selective cholinergic immunotoxin, 
ME20.4 IgG-saporin, into the basal nucleus of Meynert in monkeys.

Fine A(1), Hoyle C, Maclean CJ, Levatte TL, Baker HF, Ridley RM.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Comparative Cognition Team, Department of Experimental Psychology,
University of Cambridge, U.K.

Four groups of monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) were injected with saline or
increasing amounts of the immunotoxin, ME20.4 IgG-saporin, directly into the
basal nucleus of Meynert via a frontal trajectory which avoided damage to the
overlying basal ganglia. ME20.4 IgG binds to the primate p75 low-affinity
neurotrophin receptor, when the saporin derivitized antibody is injected into the
basal forebrain, it selectively destroys the magnocellular neurons of the basal
nucleus of Meynert which are the cells of origin of the cholinergic projection to
the neocortex. The highest dose of ME20.4 IgG-saporin produced a significant
impairment on acquisition of a perceptually difficult visual discrimination.
There was no significant effect on retention of tasks learnt before or after
surgery, nor on concurrent acquisition of several perceptually easy
discriminations or serial reversal of an easy discrimination. These results
suggest that the impairment is not due to visual, motor or motivational
difficulties and does not consist of difficulties with the formation of reward
associations. Rather the impairment is largely confined to acquisition of
perceptual discriminations. There was a significant correlation between the
density of ME20.4 immunostaining in the basal nucleus of Meynert and the density 
of acetylcholinesterase histochemical staining in the frontal and temporal cortex
and an inverse correlation between both of these and the degree of learning
impairment in the animals. Lesioned animals also showed significant impairment on
acquisition and reversal of perceptually easy discriminations when treated with a
dose of scopolamine which did not impair performance in control animals. These
results provide further evidence that cortical cholinergic neurotransmission
contributes to certain forms of learning. The availability of a selective
cholinergic immunotoxin effective in primates provides an important new tool for 
the study of cholinergic function and its involvement in ageing, Alzheimer's
disease and other pathological states.

DOI: 10.1016/s0306-4522(97)00208-x 
PMID: 9300425  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3644. J Comp Neurol. 1997 Sep 22;386(2):260-76.

N-methyl-D-aspartate subunit R1 involvement in the postnatal organization of the 
primary visual cortex of Callithrix jacchus.

Fonta C(1), Chappert C, Imbert M.

Author information: 
(1)UMR5549 Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique/Université Paul
Sabatier/Ecole des Hautes Etudes en Sciences Sociales, Faculté de Médecine
Rangueil, Toulouse, France. fonta@cerco.ups-tlse.fr

It has been demonstrated that the primary visual cortex is highly sensitive to
manipulations of the visual environment during a specific, early,
postdevelopmental period: the critical period. Pharmacological studies have shown
that N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors are involved in the plasticity of the 
visual cortex just as they are involved in the induction of long-term
potentiation (LTP), another activity-dependent form of plasticity. The setting up
of synaptic connectivity in the neocortex may rely on LTP-like mechanisms. By
using immunohistochemistry techniques, we tested the hypothesis of the role of
subunit R1 of NMDA (NMDAR1) receptors in the thalamocortical afferent segregation
into ocular-dominance columns in the New World monkey, Callithrix jacchus. We
employed early and short (2 weeks) monocular-deprivation periods at different
ages of postnatal development (17, 46, 67, 107, and 188 postnatal days). We
observed heterogeneous distribution of NMDAR1 in the layer IVC receiving the
thalamic inputs if the deprivation was realized between the ages of 46 and 107
days. Layers IVCalpha and IVCbeta were involved differently as a function of the 
deprivation age. The striped pattern lost its differential intensity with the
postnatal age. These results are compared with the ocular-dominance pattern
evolution described in other works on this primate. They provide evidence of the 
NMDAR1 role in the modular organization, within time limits, during the postnatal
development of the primary visual cortex.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1096-9861(19970922)386:2<260::aid-cne7>3.0.co;2-# 
PMID: 9295151  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

