

3645. Synapse. 1997 Sep;27(1):14-25.

Vasopressin and oxytocin immunoreactive neurons and fibers in the forebrain of
male and female common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Wang Z(1), Moody K, Newman JD, Insel TR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Emory University School of
Medicine, and Yerkes Regional Primate Research Center, Emory University, Atlanta,
Georgia 30322, USA.

Vasopressin (AVP) and oxytocin (OT) immunoreactive (ir) neurons and fibers were
examined in the forebrain of male and female common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus). As expected from previous studies of cell distribution in the rodent
and primate brain, AVP-ir cells were most evident in the paraventricularis,
supraopticus, and suprachiasmaticus of the hypothalamus. AVP-ir cells were also
widely distributed in the lateral hypothalamus and the bed nucleus of the stria
terminalis. A sexually dimorphic pattern of AVP-ir cells was found in the bed
nucleus of the stria terminalis, in which males had more AVP-ir cells than
females. OT-ir cells were found in the paraventricularis and supraopticus of the 
hypothalamus as well as in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and the medial
amygdala. Male and female marmosets did not differ in the distribution of OT-ir
cells. Fibers for both AVP and OT were evident outside of the
hypothalamic-neurohypophyseal tract, but a plexus of AVP-ir fibers in the lateral
septum or lateral habenular nucleus, as seen in the rat brain, could not be
detected for either peptide.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1098-2396(199709)27:1<14::AID-SYN2>3.0.CO;2-G 
PMID: 9268061  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3646. Pharmacol Biochem Behav. 1997 Sep;58(1):85-91.

Marmoset conspecific confrontation: an ethologically-based model of anxiety.

Cilia J(1), Piper DC.

Author information: 
(1)SmithKline Beecham Pharmaceuticals, New Frontiers Science Park, Harlow, UK.

A method of measuring confrontation-induced behavioural changes in common
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) together with automated monitoring of locomotor
activity has been developed as a possible model of anxiety. Recording both
affiliative and agonistic behaviours between male/female pairs of marmosets and
using diazepam as a reference drug, it has been possible to define a profile of
behavioural changes which could be regarded as representing an anxiolytic
response. Unfamiliar male/female pairs of marmosets were brought into close
(non-contact) proximity in a controlled environment, in which their locomotor
activity was recorded automatically. Simultaneously, their interactive behaviour 
was assessed by an independent observer via closed-circuit television. The
following behaviours were analysed: aggressive postures, allogrooming,
scratching, anxiety-related behaviours, social contact and self-grooming.
Administration of diazepam at 1 and 3.5 mg/kg PO induced a significant (compared 
to control) reduction in scratching, aggressive behaviours, anxiety-related
behaviours and an increase in allogrooming without affecting locomotor activity
during confrontation. Differing responses dependent on gender were not found, nor
did gender influence the effect of treatment on behaviour. Habituation to
repeated confrontation did not occur. The results from this study demonstrate
that this method can be used to measure anxiolytic activity in an objective
manner.

DOI: 10.1016/s0091-3057(96)00376-0 
PMID: 9264075  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

