

3657. J Vet Med Sci. 1997 Jul;59(7):561-7.

Effects of click intensity and frequency on the brain-stem auditory evoked
potentials in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Harada T(1), Tokuriki M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Veterinary Physiology, Faculty of Agriculture, Yamaguchi
University, Japan.

Brain-stem auditory evoked potentials (BAEPs) were recorded in 20 common
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) to investigate the effects of click frequency up
to 99 kHz, in consideration of the higher hearing range of the marmoset, and
intensity on wave forms and peak latencies. According to the results of BAEP
recordings at frequencies of 4, 32, and 99 kHz, the number of components recorded
was affected by the stimulus intensity and the clicks at an intensity of 80 dB
peak equivalent sound pressure level (pe SPL) had the maximum number of clear
components. Therefore, it was indicated that click stimulations at an intensity
of 80 dB pe SPL over a broad range of frequencies appears to be useful for
recording the maximum number of components in marmosets and may increase the
information obtainable from BAEPs. BAEP latencies were prolonged as the stimulus 
intensity decreased from 100 to 50 dB pe SPL. The effects of stimulus frequency
on the wave latencies and amplitudes in response to 80 dB pe SPL at frequencies
between 0.5 and 99 kHz revealed various changes: the amplitude of wave I
increased at 16 and 32 kHz, but that of waves III and V increased at 4-8 and
64-99 kHz. These increases in amplitudes of the waves may correlate with higher
synchronous activity of the peripheral or central auditory pathways.

DOI: 10.1292/jvms.59.561 
PMID: 9271451  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3658. Anim Behav. 1997 Jul;54(1):171-80.

Group size and aggression: 'recruitment incentives' in a cooperatively breeding
primate

Schaffner CM(1), French JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska at Omaha

In many cooperatively breeding birds and mammals, group size is positively
correlated with reproductive success. In marmoset and tamarin monkeys, species
that display cooperative breeding, the presence of helpers appears to be critical
for offspring survival, and breeders might be expected to display social
strategies that would regulate group size. This study investigated the
association between group size and aggression towards strangers in Wied's black
tufted-ear marmosets, Callithrix kuhlifrom small groups (with no helpers present)
and large groups (with helpers present). Residents were exposed to multiple
presentations of male and female strangers. Breeding females from large groups
spent more time in close proximity to strangers, showed higher levels of
agonistic displays and engaged in higher levels of aggressive behaviour towards
intruders than did breeding females from small groups. Breeding male behaviour
did not dramatically differ as a function of group size. After the removal of the
intruder, female breeders from large groups showed higher levels of scent-marking
relative to baseline observations, and time spent in close proximity to the
partner increased after exposure to female intruders in large, but not small,
groups. The results reveal that breeders from small groups are tolerant of
strangers, which may facilitate the recruitment of additional group members,
whereas breeders from large groups, particularly females, are intolerant of
strangers, which may inhibit immigration. These findings have implications for
understanding mechanisms that regulate immigration in cooperatively breeding
animals, and suggest of how breeders from small groups might reconcile the
serious limitation of having few or no helpers.

DOI: 10.1006/anbe.1996.0413 
PMID: 9268447 

