

3660. J Endocrinol. 1997 Jul;154(1):125-31.

Blockade of the neonatal increase in testosterone by a GnRH antagonist: the free 
androgen index, reproductive capacity and postmortem findings in the male
marmoset monkey.

Lunn SF(1), Cowen GM, Fraser HM.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Reproductive Biology Unit, Centre for Reproductive Biology, Edinburgh, UK.

Male marmoset monkeys which had received gonadotrophin-releasing hormone (GnRH)
antagonist treatment as neonates to block the postnatal increase in testosterone 
were studied, with the object of determining potential long-term effects of
treatment on the reproductive system, including tests of fertilising capacity. To
obtain information on the nature of the circulating testosterone during this
neonatal period, sequential blood samples were collected from a further control
group of ten neonates, aged between birth and 3 months, and from 11 adult,
normally fertile males, to examine the relative proportions of free,
sex-hormone-binding globulin (SHBG)-bound, and non-SHBG-bound testosterone. In
control neonates, 11% of the circulating testosterone was free, and a further 19%
non-SHBG-bound, and therefore presumed to be biologically available. The
remaining 70% was SHBG-bound and considered to be biologically inert. This
indicates that the neonatal increase in marmoset testosterone has a biological
function. After pairing with females, time to first positive vaginal lavage and
first delivery was similar for females, whether they were with control or treated
male partners. Pregnancy outcome, in terms of number of young delivered and sex
ratio, did not differ. This indicates that there appear to be no long-term
sequelae in terms of procreative ability in male marmosets treated neonatally
with a GnRH antagonist. Autopsy revealed no gross changes, except in the thymus, 
which was significantly heavier in the treated group. These results indicate
that, although the circulating testosterone is in a biologically active form
during the neonatal period, inhibition of testicular function in the neonate is
without major effect on the adult male reproductive system. Treatment with a GnRH
antagonist may have long-term effects on the immune system.

DOI: 10.1677/joe.0.1540125 
PMID: 9246946  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3661. Vet Pathol. 1997 Jul;34(4):341-5.

Idiopathic myelofibrosis (agnogenic myeloid metaplasia) in a marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus): hematologic and histopathologic changes.

Khan KN, Logan AC, Blomquist EM.

Idiopathic myelofibrosis (IMF), or agnogenic myeloid metaplasia, was diagnosed in
a sexually mature male marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) based on the results of
hematology and histopathologic evaluation of the bone marrow. The hematologic
changes included pancytopenia, leukoerythroblastosis, anisocytosis,
poikilocytosis, and giant platelets. Histopathologic evaluation of the bone
marrow showed marked widespread fibrosis replacing hematopoietic cells and the
presence of atypical megakaryocytes. In addition, slight multifocal osteolysis
with an increase in serum alkaline phosphatase activity was observed. We believe 
this is the first report of IMF in a nonhuman primate species.

DOI: 10.1177/030098589703400410 
PMID: 9240843  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

