

3665. Synapse. 1997 Jul;26(3):301-16.

Nitric oxide synthase inhibition and MPTP-induced toxicity in the common
marmoset.

Mackenzie GM(1), Jackson MJ, Jenner P, Marsden CD.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Diseases Research Centre, King's College London, United
Kingdom.

Nitric oxide, produced following activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)
receptors, may be involved in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)
toxicity since NMDA receptor antagonists have been shown to prevent MPTP induced 
nigral cell loss in primates. Common marmosets were treated with either saline or
MPTP or L-NGnitro arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) or MPTP and L-NAME. MPTP-treated
common marmosets showed motor deficits including bradykinesia, rigidity, and
tremor accompanied by a marked loss of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive
neurones in the substantia nigra pars compacta and of [3H]-mazindol binding in
the caudate-putamen. MPTP treatment also caused an increase in glial fibrillary
acidic protein (GFAP) staining in the substantia nigra compared to controls.
However, MPTP treatment did not alter the number of constitutive nitric oxide
synthase-immunoreactive neurones in the caudate-putamen. Furthermore, neurones or
glial cells immunoreactive for inducible nitric oxide synthase were not observed 
in the substantia nigra pars compacta following MPTP treatment. L-NAME treatment 
alone did not produce any behavioural changes in marmosets and did not alter the 
number of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive cells in the substantia nigra pars 
compacta, the number of constitutive nitric oxide synthase-immunoreactive
neurones or [3H]-mazindol binding in the caudate-putamen compared to
saline-treated control animals. Furthermore, L-NAME did not affect the motor
deficits, loss of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive neurones in the substantia 
nigra pars compacta, loss of [3H]-mazindol binding in the caudate-putamen, or the
increase in GFAP staining in the substantia nigra induced by MPTP treatment of
common marmosets. The failure of L-NAME to protect against MPTP-induced toxicity 
in the marmoset suggests that nitric oxide does not play a major role in such
toxicity and casts doubt over the involvement of the NMDA:nitric oxide system in 
neurodegeneration in MPTP-treated primates.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1098-2396(199707)26:3<301::AID-SYN11>3.0.CO;2-Y 
PMID: 9183819  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3666. Baillieres Clin Obstet Gynaecol. 1997 Jun;11(2):249-60.

Role of androgens in follicle maturation and atresia.

Hillier SG(1), Tetsuka M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, University of Edinburgh, UK.

Androgens are products of progestogen metabolism, intermediates in oestrogen
biosynthesis and local regulators of ovarian function. Current understanding of
intraovarian androgen formation, metabolism and action is reviewed, highlighting 
the contribution of androgens to the paracrine regulation of follicular
maturation and atresia. Any factor that alters intracellular cAMP levels is a
potential modulator of granulosa cell differentiation, and hence follicular
development. Androgen appears to modulate gonadotrophin action on granulosa cells
through amplification of cAMP-mediated post-receptor signalling. Here it is
argued that during intermediate stages of follicular development, locally
produced androgen acts via granulosa cell androgen receptors (AR) to promote
follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH)-induced granulosa cell differentiation through
amplifying cAMP-mediated post-receptor signalling. During late pre-ovulatory
follicular development, higher concentrations of cAMP caused by stimulation with 
luteinizing hormone (LH) suppress granulosa cell proliferation and down-regulate 
some of the genes induced by FSH at earlier stages of pre-ovulatory development, 
including aromatase activity. Other granulosa cell functions, including
progesterone synthesis, are enhanced by the high concentrations of cAMP induced
by LH. There is experimental evidence from studies of rat and non-human primate
(common marmoset) ovaries that AR levels in granulosa cells decline during
pre-ovulatory follicular maturation. Since androgens augment FSH-induced cAMP
formation and action, loss of AR could be a means of avoiding inappropriately
high cAMP levels and hence avoiding premature activation of 'high-tone'
cAMP-response genes that lead to atresia. Negative regulation of the granulosa
cell AR could be part of the intra-ovarian mechanism that determines which
follicle(s) becomes dominant and secretes oestrogen in the normal menstrual
cycle.

DOI: 10.1016/s0950-3552(97)80036-3 
PMID: 9536210  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

