

367. Mob DNA. 2020 Feb 1;11:6. doi: 10.1186/s13100-020-0203-2. eCollection 2020.

Identification and characterization of ERV-W-like sequences in Platyrrhini
species provides new insights into the evolutionary history of ERV-W in primates.

Grandi N(1), Pisano MP(1), Demurtas M(1), Blomberg J(2), Magiorkinis G(3), Mayer 
J(4), Tramontano E(1)(5).

Author information: 
(1)1Department of Life and Environmental Sciences, University of Cagliari,
Cittadella Universitaria di Monserrato, SS554, Monserrato, Cagliari Italy.
(2)2Department of Medical Sciences, Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden.
(3)3Institute of Human Genetics, University of Saarland, Homburg, Germany.
(4)4Department of Hygiene, Epidemiology, and Medical Statistics, Medical School, 
National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, Athens, Greece.
(5)5Istituto di Ricerca Genetica e Biomedica (IRGB), CNR, Monserrato, Cagliari
Italy.

Background: Endogenous Retroviruses (ERVs) constitute approximately 8% of every
human genome and are relics of ancestral infections that affected the germ line
cells. The ERV-W group contributed to primate physiology by providing an envelope
protein (Syncytin-1) that has been adopted for placenta development in hominoids.
Expression of Human ERV-W (HERV-W) sequences is investigated for a pathological
role in various human diseases.
Results: We previously characterized ERV-W group genomic sequences in human and
non-human Catarrhini species. We now investigated ERV-W-like sequences in the
parvorder Platyrrhini, especially regarding two species with complete genome
assemblies, namely marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) and squirrel monkey (Saimiri
boliviensis). We identified in both species proviral sequences, annotated as
ERV1-1 in respective genome assemblies, sharing high sequence similarities with
Catarrhini ERV-W. A total of 130 relatively intact proviruses from the genomes of
marmoset and squirrel monkey were characterized regarding their structural and
evolutionarily relationships with Catarrhini ERV-W elements. Platyrrhini ERV-W
sequences share several structural features with Catarrhini ERV-W elements and
are closely related phylogenetically with the latter as well as with other
ERV-W-related gammaretrovirus-like ERVs. The ERV-W group colonized Platyrrhini
primates of both Callitrichidae and Atelidae lineages, with provirus formations
having occurred mostly between 25 and 15 mya. Two LTR subgroups were associated
with monophyletic proviral bodies. A pre-gag region appears to be a sequence
feature common to the ERV-W group: it harbors a putative intron sequence that is 
missing in some ERV-W loci, holding a putative ORF as well. The presence of a
long pre-gag portion was confirmed among all gammaretroviral ERV analyzed,
suggesting a role in the latter biology. It is noteworthy that, contrary to
Catarrhini ERV-W, there was no evidence of L1-mediated mobilization for
Platyrrhini ERV-W sequences.
Conclusions: Our data establish that ERV-W is not exclusive to Catarrhini
primates but colonized both parvorders of Simiiformes, providing further insight 
into the evolution of ERV-W and the colonization of primate genomes.

© The Author(s). 2020.

DOI: 10.1186/s13100-020-0203-2 
PMCID: PMC6995185
PMID: 32021657 

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interestsThe authors declare that they 
have no competing interests.


368. Am J Primatol. 2020 Mar;82(3):e23101. doi: 10.1002/ajp.23101. Epub 2020 Feb 5.

Maternal weight affects placental DNA methylation of genes involved in metabolic 
pathways in the common marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus).

Narapareddy L(1), Wildman DE(2), Armstrong DL(3), Weckle A(4), Bell AF(5), Patil 
CL(5), Tardif SD(6), Ross CN(7), Rutherford JN(5).

Author information: 
(1)Nell Hodgson Woodruff School of Nursing, Emory University, Atlanta, Georgia.
(2)Genomics Program, College of Public Health, University of South Florida,
Tampa, Florida.
(3)Carl R. Woese Institute for Genomic Biology, University of Illinois at
Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, Illinois.
(4)Illinois Water Resources Center, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign,
Urbana, Illinois.
(5)Department of Women, Children and Family Health Science, College of Nursing,
University of Illinois at Chicago, Chicago, Illinois.
(6)Texas Biomedical Research Institute, Southwest National Primate Research
Center, San Antonio, Texas.
(7)Program of Biology, College of Arts and Sciences, Texas A&M University-San
Antonio, San Antonio, Texas.

Accumulating evidence suggests that dysregulation of placental DNA methylation
(DNAm) is a mechanism linking maternal weight during pregnancy to metabolic
programming outcomes. The common marmoset, Callithrix jaccus, is a platyrrhine
primate species that has provided much insight into studies of the primate
placenta, maternal condition, and metabolic programming, yet the relationships
between maternal weight and placental DNAm are unknown. Here, we report
genome-wide DNAm from term marmoset placentas using reduced representation
bisulfite sequencing. We identified 74 genes whose DNAm pattern is associated
with maternal weight during gestation. These genes are predominantly involved in 
energy metabolism and homeostasis, including the regulation of glycolytic and
lipid metabolic processes pathways.

© 2020 The Authors. American Journal of Primatology published by Wiley
Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.23101 
PMCID: PMC7154656
PMID: 32020652  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

