

3671. Xenobiotica. 1997 Jun;27(6):539-56.

Metabolism of the calcium antagonist, mibefradil (POSICOR, Ro 40-5967). Part II. 
Metabolism in hepatic microsomes from rat, marmoset, cynomolgus monkey, rabbit
and man.

Wiltshire HR(1), Sutton BM, Heeps G, Betty AM, Angus DW, Madigan MJ, Sharp SR.

Author information: 
(1)Pharmacokinetics and Metabolism Department, Roche Products Ltd, Welwyn Garden 
City, UK.

1. The calcium antagonist, mibefradil, is converted to some 30 metabolites after 
incubation with hepatic microsomes from the rat, marmoset, cynomolgus monkey,
rabbit and man. 2. The wide inter-species differences in metabolic profile stem
mainly from variations in the activity of the microsomal esterase, which
hydrolyses the ester side-chain of mibefradil to give the alcohol metabolite, Ro 
40-5966. Hydrolysis is especially marked in the cynomolgus monkey and rabbit,
less in man and least in the rat and marmoset. 3. The biotransformation of this
alcohol metabolite by cytochromes P450 is more facile than that of the parent
compound, leads to fewer metabolites and the metabolic profiles in all species
are similar. 4. The most important cytochrome P450-mediated metabolic process in 
microsomes in all species is hydroxylation at the benzylic carbon atom of the
tetrahydronaphthyl group; further oxidation of the resultant secondary alcohol to
a ketone also occurs. These reactions indicate the route of the biosynthetic
pathway which leads to the major, naphthyl-glucuronide metabolites previously
isolated from rat bile. 5. Dealkylation of the tertiary amino group is also
important and leads to compounds lacking either the N-methyl group or the
propylbenzimidazole moiety. 6. Hydroxylation of the benzimidazole ring at both
the 4- and 5-positions is largely restricted to mibefradil and does not occur to 
a significant extent with Ro 40-5966.

DOI: 10.1080/004982597240334 
PMID: 9211655  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3672. J Endocrinol. 1997 Jun;153(3):485-95.

Immunolocalisation of oestrogen receptor-alpha within the testis and excurrent
ducts of the rat and marmoset monkey from perinatal life to adulthood.

Fisher JS(1), Millar MR, Majdic G, Saunders PT, Fraser HM, Sharpe RM.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Reproductive Biology Unit, Centre for Reproductive Biology, Edinburgh, UK.

The sites of action and the physiological role of oestrogens in the male
reproductive tract are poorly understood. We have undertaken a systematic study
of the immunoexpression of oestrogen receptor-alpha (ER alpha) in the male rat
from late fetal life through to adulthood and compared the findings with results 
obtained in the marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus) from neonatal to adult life.
The testes, rete testis, efferent ducts and epididymis were examined from normal 
male rats (aged 4, 8, 10, 15, 20, 25, 38, 48 and 90 days) and from male rat
fetuses on days 17.5 and 18.5 of gestation; comparable tissues were examined from
neonatal, infantile, peripubertal and adult marmosets aged 8, 18-24, 54-62 and
92-112 weeks respectively. Immunolocalisation of ER alpha used antigen retrieval 
and a monoclonal antibody directed to the N-terminus, which had proved superior
to six other antisera tested. ER alpha was immunoexpressed in interstitial cells,
including the fetal/ neonatal generation of Leydig cells, in both the rat and
marmoset. In the rat, the adult generation of Leydig cells were also
immunopositive for ER alpha whereas the comparable cells in the marmoset were
only weakly immunopositive. ER alpha was not expressed in Sertoli cells,
peritubular myoid cells, blood vessels or germ cells at any time in either
species. In late fetal life in the rat, ER alpha was immunoexpressed in cells
surrounding the mesonephric tubules, whereas postnatally it was expressed in the 
epithelium of the rete testis and efferent ducts at all ages from 4 to 90 days;
this immunoexpression was most pronounced in the efferent ducts. In the marmoset,
the efferent ducts, but not the rete testis, also showed intense immunoexpression
of ER alpha. Apart from sporadic immunostaining for ER alpha in the epididymal
duct of the rat in the neonatal period, the caput, corpus and cauda epididymis
were negative for immunoexpression of ER alpha at all ages in both species. These
findings suggest that the main actions of oestrogens in the male reproductive
tract, mediated by ER alpha, are related to the development and function of the
efferent ducts and the Leydig cells. In consideration of data from this and
previous studies of oestrogen binding, we predict possible sites of expression of
other oestrogen receptors (e.g. ER beta) in Sertoli cells and the epididymis.
Interactive effects, related to the relative levels of androgens and oestrogens, 
could be physiologically important in the excurrent ducts of the adult testis.

DOI: 10.1677/joe.0.1530485 
PMID: 9204003  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

