

3682. Horm Behav. 1997 Apr;31(2):159-68.

Social and developmental influences on reproductive function in female Wied's
black tufted-ear marmosets (Callithrix kuhli).

Smith TE(1), Schaffner CM, French JA.

Author information: 
(1)Nebraska Behavioral Biology Group, University of Nebraska, Omaha 68182, USA.

Although marmoset social groups may contain multiple adult females, reproduction 
is typically limited to one breeding female. A variety of endocrine and
behavioral mechanisms have been identified that regulate fertility among female
marmosets. In the present study, we assessed the mechanism(s) by which fertility 
is regulated in female black tufted-ear marmosets, Callithrix kuhli. The
reproductive status of 10 daughters aged 2-24 months was evaluated by measuring
concentrations of urinary pregnane-diol 3 alpha glucuronide (PdG) and luteinizing
hormone (LH). Concentrations of the two hormones were typically low in daughters 
less than 12 months of age, and the profiles suggested anovulation (mean PdG < 2 
micrograms/mg Cr and mean LH < 6 ng/mg Cr). Concentrations of PdG rose
dramatically in females older than 12 months. Eight subadult daughters commenced 
ovulatory function while still living with their family, and the remaining two
failed to ovulate. The onset of ovarian function coincided with a change in the
social environment in two females, but the remaining six females commenced
spontaneous ovarian activity that was not associated with any social or
environmental factor (mean age: 15.6 +/- 1.6 months). Ovulatory function was
monitored in five daughters while housed in their natal family group, while
removed from the natal family group and housed singly, and while paired with an
unrelated and unfamiliar male. The ovarian cycles of these females housed in the 
natal group were characterized by significantly shorter luteal phases and reduced
PdG concentrations, relative to when the females were housed on their own, and
relative to adult breeding females (n = 6). Stimulatory cues from unfamiliar
males were not necessary to trigger regular ovarian function in females. In this 
species, the regulation of fertility in daughters is a complex combination of
behavioral and endocrine factors.

DOI: 10.1006/hbeh.1997.1380 
PMID: 9154436  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3683. Histochem Cell Biol. 1997 Apr;107(4):345-50.

The expression of sf-1/Ad4BP is related to the process of luteinization in the
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) ovary.

Wehrenberg U(1), Wulff C, Husen B, Morohashi K, Rune GM.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Anatomie, Ernst-Moritz-Arndt-Universität, Germany.
Wehrenbe@RZ.uni-greifswald.de

Expression of the nuclear receptor, steroidogenic factor-1 (SF-1/Ad4BP), was
studied in a primate (marmoset) ovary using immunohistochemical, RT-PCR, and
immunoblot techniques. The periovulatory phase was compared with the luteal
phase. With PCR we found a marmoset homolog of SF-1/Ad4BP to be expressed in
ovarian and other steroidogenic tissues. Characteristically, the periovulatory
ovaries consisted of growing (non-luteinized) small follicles together with large
luteinizing follicles and many corpora lutea accessoria (Clas), which had
developed from atretic large follicles. During the luteal phase, true corpora
lutea (Cls) were additionally found. In general, we found that small follicles
were devoid of any immunoreactivity of SF-1/Ad4BP. In large follicles, the
luteinizing theca and granulosa cells express SF-1/Ad4BP. All luteal cells of
Clas showed a nuclear staining in both ovary types. In Cls, only a few luteal
cells were positive. Large follicles of different sizes showed no differences in 
expression level, as evidenced by immunoblot analysis. Our results indicate that 
SF-1/ Ad4BP participates in the activation of genc transcription during the onset
of luteinization and that Clas are essential for ovarian luteal function.

DOI: 10.1007/pl00007902 
PMID: 9151117  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

