

3683. Histochem Cell Biol. 1997 Apr;107(4):345-50.

The expression of sf-1/Ad4BP is related to the process of luteinization in the
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) ovary.

Wehrenberg U(1), Wulff C, Husen B, Morohashi K, Rune GM.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Anatomie, Ernst-Moritz-Arndt-Universität, Germany.
Wehrenbe@RZ.uni-greifswald.de

Expression of the nuclear receptor, steroidogenic factor-1 (SF-1/Ad4BP), was
studied in a primate (marmoset) ovary using immunohistochemical, RT-PCR, and
immunoblot techniques. The periovulatory phase was compared with the luteal
phase. With PCR we found a marmoset homolog of SF-1/Ad4BP to be expressed in
ovarian and other steroidogenic tissues. Characteristically, the periovulatory
ovaries consisted of growing (non-luteinized) small follicles together with large
luteinizing follicles and many corpora lutea accessoria (Clas), which had
developed from atretic large follicles. During the luteal phase, true corpora
lutea (Cls) were additionally found. In general, we found that small follicles
were devoid of any immunoreactivity of SF-1/Ad4BP. In large follicles, the
luteinizing theca and granulosa cells express SF-1/Ad4BP. All luteal cells of
Clas showed a nuclear staining in both ovary types. In Cls, only a few luteal
cells were positive. Large follicles of different sizes showed no differences in 
expression level, as evidenced by immunoblot analysis. Our results indicate that 
SF-1/ Ad4BP participates in the activation of genc transcription during the onset
of luteinization and that Clas are essential for ovarian luteal function.

DOI: 10.1007/pl00007902 
PMID: 9151117  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3684. Lab Anim Sci. 1997 Apr;47(2):138-42.

Hepatic hemosiderosis in common marmosets, Callithrix jacchus: effect of diet on 
incidence and severity.

Miller GF(1), Barnard DE, Woodward RA, Flynn BM, Bulte JW.

Author information: 
(1)Veterinary Resources Program, National Center for Research Resources, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland, USA.

We examined the effect of dietary iron concentration on the incidence of hepatic 
hemosiderosis in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) and assessed the impact of
hemosiderosis on animal health. Thirteen young adult common marmosets were fed
nutritionally balanced natural-ingredient diets formulated to contain either 100 
or 500 ppm of iron. Six were fed the low-iron and seven received the high-iron
diet. Baseline blood values and liver iron content were determined for each
animal. Animals were weighted monthly, blood work (hematologic analysis, serum
iron concentration, total iron-binding capacity, percent of transferrin
saturation) was performed semi-annually, and liver biopsies for iron analysis
were obtained after marmosets had consumed the test diets for 13 months or at
necropsy. Midway in study, the high-iron diet was reformulated to contain 350 ppm
of iron because of the death of a male which had consumed that diet for 7 months.
Four of seven marmosets fed the high-iron diet died during the first year of the 
study, compared with one death in the low-iron cohort. The mean increase in liver
iron content of the marmosets fed the high-iron diet was 6,371 micrograms/g, dry 
weight analysis. In contrast the low-iron cohort had a mean decrease of 621.5
micrograms/g. These results indicate that liver iron content can be affected by
dietary iron intake. The increased mortality in the marmosets fed the high-iron
diet also suggests that hepatic hemosiderosis can be detrimental to marmoset
health.


PMID: 9150491  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

