

3686. Pharmacol Biochem Behav. 1997 Apr;56(4):763-80.

Cognitive deficits induced by global cerebral ischaemia: prospects for transplant
therapy.

Hodges H(1), Nelson A, Virley D, Kershaw TR, Sinden JD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Institute of Psychiatry, London, UK.

Global ischaemia induced by interruption of cerebral blood flow results in damage
to vulnerable cells, notably in the CA1 and hilar hippocampal fields, and is
frequently associated with memory deficits. This review examines cognitive
deficits that occur in animal models of global ischaemia in rats and monkeys, the
extent to which these deficits are associated with CA1 cell loss, and the
evidence for functional recovery following transplants of foetal CA1 cells and
grafts of conditionally immortalised precursor cells. In rats, impairments are
seen most consistently in tasks of spatial learning and spatial working memory
dependent on use of allocentric environmental cues. In monkeys, ischaemic
deficits have been shown to a moderate extent in delayed object recognition
tasks, but animals with a selective excitotoxic CA1 lesion show a profound
impairment in conditional discrimination tasks, suggesting that these may be a
more sensitive measure of ischaemic impairments. Several studies have reported
correlational links between the extent of CA1 cell loss following two or four
vessel occlusion (2 VO, 4 VO) in rats and behavioural impairments, but recent
findings indicate that at intermediate levels of damage these relationships are
weak and variable, and emerge clearly only when animals with maximal CA1 cell
loss are included, suggesting that the deficits involve more than damage to the
CA1 field. Nevertheless, ischaemic rats and CA1-lesioned marmosets with grafts of
foetal CA1 cells show substantial improvements; in rats these are not found with 
grafts from other hippocampal fields. Conditionally immortalised cell lines and
trophic grafts are currently being assessed for their functional potential in
animal models, because clinical use of foetal cells will not be practicable.
Recent findings suggest that an expanded population of neuroepithelial cells
derived from the conditionally immortalised H-2Kb-tsA58 transgenic mouse improve 
spatial learning as effectively as CA1 foetal grafts in rats subjected to 4 VO,
and clonal lines from the same source show similar promise. Lines derived from
precursor cells have the potential to develop into different types of cell
(neuronal or glial) depending on signals from the host brain. These cell lines
may therefore have the capacity to repair damaged host circuits more precisely
than is possible with foetal grafts, and offer a promising, approach both to
functional recovery and to elucidating graft-host interactions.

DOI: 10.1016/s0091-3057(96)00424-8 
PMID: 9130304  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3687. Magn Reson Med. 1997 Apr;37(4):530-6.

Hepatic hemosiderosis in non-human primates: quantification of liver iron using
different field strengths.

Bulte JW(1), Miller GF, Vymazal J, Brooks RA, Frank JA.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Diagnostic Radiology Research, National Institutes of Health,
Bethesda, MD 20892-1074, USA.

Using a non-human primate model of idiopathic hemochromatosis,
hemosiderin-induced T2 shortening of the liver was assessed at nine different
field strengths over a range of 0.05 to 1.5 Tesla. The 1/T2 values increased
linearly with field strength, with all specimens having approximately the same
zero-field intercept. The slope of the field increase, termed "field-dependent T2
proton relaxation enhancement (PRE)", appeared to be proportional to the
chemically determined tissue iron content, viz. 10.8 s-1T-1(mg Fe/g wet
tissue)-1. The correlation between iron content and field-dependent T2 PRE (r =
0.94) was better than the correlation between iron content and 1/T2 values
obtained at single field strengths. For livers containing > or = 2 mg Fe/g wet
weight, biexponential T2 relaxation behavior emerged at higher field strengths,
with the short T2 component (intracellular water) exhibiting a linear dependence 
of 1/T2 on field, while T2 of the long component (extracellular/sinusoidal water)
was nearly field-independent. After maceration of the specimens, all T2
relaxation curves became monoexponential, including those for high iron content
at high field strengths. The present data suggest that the use of double-field MR
imaging to assess the field-dependent T2 PRE has potential for specific
quantification of (liver) tissue iron stores.

DOI: 10.1002/mrm.1910370409 
PMID: 9094074  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

