

3691. Vet Parasitol. 1997 Mar;68(4):299-304.

Toxoplasmosis in a colony of New World monkeys.

Dietz HH(1), Henriksen P, Bille-Hansen V, Henriksen SA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Poultry, Fish and Fur Bearing Animals, Danish Veterinary
Laboratory, Aarhus N. Denmark. hhd@svs.dk

In a colony of New World monkeys five tamarins (Saguinus oedipus, Saguinus
labiatus and Leontopithecus rosal. rosal.), three marmosets (Callithrix jacchus
and Callithrix pygmaea) and one saki (Pithecia pithecia) died suddenly. The
colony comprised 16 marmosets, 10 tamarins and three sakis. The main pathological
findings were necrotic lesions in the lung, the intestine, and the liver.
Histopathologically T. gondii parasites were observed in organs from the tamarins
and the marmosets but not in the saki. Some considerations on epidemiology are
presented. Preventive measures were directed against the bottom layer of the
cages, on cockroach extermination, and on freezing of raw meat.

DOI: 10.1016/s0304-4017(96)01088-6 
PMID: 9106950  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3692. J Mol Med (Berl). 1997 Mar;75(3):187-97.

Creation of a model for multiple sclerosis in Callithrix jacchus marmosets.

Genain CP(1), Hauser SL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology S 258, University of California, San Francisco
94143-0435, USA.

Comment in
    J Mol Med (Berl). 1997 Mar;75(3):164.

Multiple sclerosis (MS) is an inflammatory disease of the CNS white matter
characterized pathologically by the accumulation of perivascular and parenchymal 
T lymphocytes (T cells), and macrophage infiltration associated with myelin
destruction. MS lesions are also characterized by the death of oligodendrocytes
(the myelin-producing cells) and proliferation and hypertrophy of astrocytes with
scar tissue (gliosis) replacing normal myelin. These changes result in the loss
of axonal conduction for neurons of the CNS and in clinical disability. MS is
thought to be an autoimmune disease, in particular because of its analogy with
the disease model of experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE). Despite
extensive research and the availability of various EAE models in laboratory
rodents the etiology of human MS has not been identified, and to date no
effective treatment exists. Phylogenetic differences may limit the usefulness of 
existing EAE models, and indeed no single form of rodent EAE recapitulates all
the clinical and pathological features of MS. Here we describe a novel form of
EAE created in a nonhuman primate, the common marmoset Callithrix jacchus. Active
immunization of these monkeys with whole myelin produces a primary demyelinating 
disease with a chronic relapsing-remitting course, characterized pathologically
by moderate inflammation with prominent and early demyelination and gliosis
reminiscent of human MS. Adoptive and passive transfer experiments have permitted
definition of the mechanisms responsible for the MS-like pathology. Production of
the fully demyelinated lesion requires synergism between encephalitogenic (e.g., 
disease-inducing) T cells and pathogenic antibody. The antigens of myelin that
promote encephalitogenic T cell and antibody responses in this system have been
identified. Because of the similarity between the two conditions and the high
degree of conservation in immune and nervous system genes between nonhuman
primates and humans, future studies of marmoset EAE will likely accelerate the
development of therapies for human MS.

DOI: 10.1007/s001090050103 
PMID: 9106075  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

