

3703. Contemp Top Lab Anim Sci. 1997 Jan;36(1):52-55.

Diagnosis and Treatment of Trichospirura leptostoma Infection in Common Marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus).

Hawkins JV(1), Clapp NK, Carson RL, Henke MA, McCracken MD, Faulkner CT, Patton
S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Bioresources, Henry Ford Hospital, 2799 West Grand Blvd.,
Detroit, MI 48202.

Trichospirura leptostoma is a spirurid nematode that inhabits the pancreatic
ducts of the common marmoset, Callithrix jacchus, and other New World primates.
This parasite was diagnosed in members of this species at the Marmoset Research
Center in Oak Ridge, Tennessee colony after their importation from multiple
colonies outside the United States. Animals with few parasites in the pancreas
had few tissue changes, whereas those with many parasites had moderate to severe 
fibrosis replacing exocrine tissue. Trichospirura leptostoma can cause chronic
pancreatitis, resulting in subclinical to clinical pancreatic insufficiency and
secondary malnutrition. Clinical signs of pancreatic insufficiency in affected
marmosets included weight loss (despite good appetite) and increased fecal
volume. Because earlier reports did not mention treatments, experimental
therapeutic regimens were attempted to eliminate infections from the marmosets.
In the clinical studies, different doses and treatment periods with ivermectin
and fenbendazole were evaluated for therapeutic efficacy. Fenbendazole given
daily at a dosage of 50 mg/kg of body weight by gavage for 14 days was the most
effective treatment (PI 0.052). Control of the cockroach vector, as well as
treatment of infected animals, is needed to prevent Trichospirura
leptostoma-induced disease.


PMID: 12456185 


3704. C R Seances Soc Biol Fil. 1997;191(5-6):717-29.

[Post-traumatic reconnection of the cervical spinal cord with skeletal striated
muscles. Study in adult rats and marmosets].

[Article in French]

Horvat JC(1), Affane-Boulaid F, Baillet-Derbin C, Davarpanah Y, Destombes J,
Duchossoy Y, Emery E, Kassar-Duchossoy L, Mira JC, Moissonnier P,
Pécot-Dechavassine M, Reviron T, Rhrich-Haddout F, Tadié M, Ye JH.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire de Neurobiologie, URA CNRS 1448, Université Paris
V-René-Descartes.

In an attempt at repairing the injured spinal cord of adult mammals (rat, dog and
marmoset) and its damaged muscular connections, we are currently using: 1)
peripheral nerve autografts (PNG), containing Schwann cells, to trigger and
direct axonal regrowth from host and/or transplanted motoneurons towards
denervated muscular targets; 2) foetal spinal cord transplants to replace lost
neurons. In adult rats and marmosets, a PNG bridge was used to joint the injured 
cervical spinal cord to a denervated skeletal muscle (longissimus atlantis [rat] 
or biceps brachii [rat and marmoset]). The spinal lesion was obtained by the
implantation procedure of the PNG. After a post-operative delay ranging from 2 to
22 months, the animals were checked electrophysiologically for functional
muscular reconnection and processed for a morphological study including
retrograde axonal tracing (HRP, Fast Blue, True Blue), histochemistry (AChE,
ATPase), immunocytochemistry (ChAT) and EM. It was thus demonstrated that host
motoneurons of the cervical enlargement could extend axons all the way through
the PNG bridge as: a) in anaesthetized animals, contraction of the reconnected
muscle could be obtained by electrical stimulation of the grafted nerve; b) the
retrograde axonal tracing studies indicated that a great number of host cervical 
neurons extended axons into the PNG bridge up to the muscle; c) many of them were
assumed to be motoneurons (double labelling with True Blue and an antibody
against ChAT); and even alpha-motoneurons (type C axosomatic synapses in HRP
labelled neurons seen in EM in the rat); d) numerous ectopic endplates were seen 
around the intramuscular tip of the PNG. In larger (cavitation) spinal lesions
(rat), foetal motoneurons contained in E14 spinal cord transplants could
similarly grow axons through PNG bridges up to the reconnected muscle. Taking all
these data into account, it can be concluded that neural transplants are
interesting tools for evaluating both the plasticity and the repair capacities of
the mammalian spinal cord and of its muscular connections.


PMID: 9587481  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

