

3704. C R Seances Soc Biol Fil. 1997;191(5-6):717-29.

[Post-traumatic reconnection of the cervical spinal cord with skeletal striated
muscles. Study in adult rats and marmosets].

[Article in French]

Horvat JC(1), Affane-Boulaid F, Baillet-Derbin C, Davarpanah Y, Destombes J,
Duchossoy Y, Emery E, Kassar-Duchossoy L, Mira JC, Moissonnier P,
Pécot-Dechavassine M, Reviron T, Rhrich-Haddout F, Tadié M, Ye JH.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire de Neurobiologie, URA CNRS 1448, Université Paris
V-René-Descartes.

In an attempt at repairing the injured spinal cord of adult mammals (rat, dog and
marmoset) and its damaged muscular connections, we are currently using: 1)
peripheral nerve autografts (PNG), containing Schwann cells, to trigger and
direct axonal regrowth from host and/or transplanted motoneurons towards
denervated muscular targets; 2) foetal spinal cord transplants to replace lost
neurons. In adult rats and marmosets, a PNG bridge was used to joint the injured 
cervical spinal cord to a denervated skeletal muscle (longissimus atlantis [rat] 
or biceps brachii [rat and marmoset]). The spinal lesion was obtained by the
implantation procedure of the PNG. After a post-operative delay ranging from 2 to
22 months, the animals were checked electrophysiologically for functional
muscular reconnection and processed for a morphological study including
retrograde axonal tracing (HRP, Fast Blue, True Blue), histochemistry (AChE,
ATPase), immunocytochemistry (ChAT) and EM. It was thus demonstrated that host
motoneurons of the cervical enlargement could extend axons all the way through
the PNG bridge as: a) in anaesthetized animals, contraction of the reconnected
muscle could be obtained by electrical stimulation of the grafted nerve; b) the
retrograde axonal tracing studies indicated that a great number of host cervical 
neurons extended axons into the PNG bridge up to the muscle; c) many of them were
assumed to be motoneurons (double labelling with True Blue and an antibody
against ChAT); and even alpha-motoneurons (type C axosomatic synapses in HRP
labelled neurons seen in EM in the rat); d) numerous ectopic endplates were seen 
around the intramuscular tip of the PNG. In larger (cavitation) spinal lesions
(rat), foetal motoneurons contained in E14 spinal cord transplants could
similarly grow axons through PNG bridges up to the reconnected muscle. Taking all
these data into account, it can be concluded that neural transplants are
interesting tools for evaluating both the plasticity and the repair capacities of
the mammalian spinal cord and of its muscular connections.


PMID: 9587481  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3705. Chirurgie. 1997;122(4):252-9.

[Motor reconnection between the damaged cervical cord and the denervated biceps
muscle using an autologous peripheral nerve segment in the adult marmoset].

[Article in French]

Emery E(1), Horvat JC, Tadie M.

Author information: 
(1)Service de Neurochirurgie du Pr. A. Rey, Hôpital Beaujon, clichy.

Our research group is studying, in the primate (marmoset), the conditions of an
anatomical and functional reconstruction of the spinal cord and of its motor
connections, following a focal spinal lesion. In this attempt to repair the
damaged neuronal circuitry, we used long segments of autologous peripheral nerves
joining the injured cervical spinal cord to an aneural region of the denervated
biceps brachialis muscle (7 marmosets) or to the musculocutaneous nerve (6
marmosets). After retrograde tracing (HRP) and histochemical studies of the
muscle, we found that a great number of neurons, located mostly in the ventral
part of the grey matter extended axons into the peripheral nerve graft. Some of
these labelled neurons were motoneurons, which could established functionnal
neuromuscular junctions. The muscle regeneration was effective but slower than
already known in rat studies.


PMID: 9501551  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

