

3708. Folia Primatol (Basel). 1997;68(3-5):296-306.

Foraging strategies among male and female marmosets and tamarins
(Callitrichidae): new perspectives in an underexplored area.

Box HO(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Reading, UK.

Few studies have involved an examination of behavioural gender differences among 
callitrichid primates. The present paper presents consistent evidence from
experimental projects, together with less formal observations, that adult females
of both breeding and non-breeding status in species of marmosets (Callithrix) and
tamarins (Saguinus) demonstrate priority of access to preferred and/or restricted
sources of food. Differences in behavioural strategies between males and females 
in this regard are not only functionally plausible, but are consistent with
differences in natural behaviour both in feeding ecology and social organization 
in species of the different genera. Behavioural propensities that relate to the
behavioural strategies of males and females are also considered, together with a 
number of suggestions for future research that arise directly from the
observations reported.

DOI: 10.1159/000157255 
PMID: 9360311  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3709. Am J Primatol. 1997;43(2):135-46.

Social context affects phee call production by nonreproductive common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus).

Norcross JL(1), Newman JD.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Comparative Ethology, NICHD, NIH, Poolesville, Maryland 20837,
USA. NORCROSJ@Ice.nichd.nih.gov

Common marmosets produce two variants of their long call (phee call) in different
situations. Intergroup calls are produced in territorial situations, and
intragroup separation calls are produced by marmosets isolated from group
members. Marmoset groups frequently include postpubertal, nonreproductive
members; their roles in the spontaneous production of territorial vocalizations
is unclear. This study analyzed the production of home cage phee calls by
nonreproductive, postpubertal marmosets while they were housed in their natal
groups and after pairing with an opposite-sex conspecific. Additionally, the
production of the separation phee call variant was assessed in both social
conditions. The results indicated that the marmosets rarely produced home cage,
or territorial, phee calls while they were natally housed. In contrast, both
males and females produced the territorial phee call at a much higher rate as
early as 4 days after pairing. Agematched females remaining in their natal groups
throughout the study produced home cage phee calls infrequently. Most marmosets
produced separation phee calls at a high rate after separation from either their 
natal group or a partner, suggesting that the makeup of a social group has little
effect on an animal's motivation to reunite with conspecifics. These results
suggest that the social environment has an important influence on the production 
of territorial phee calls.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1098-2345(1997)43:2<135::AID-AJP3>3.0.CO;2-Y 
PMID: 9327096  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

