

3714. Brain Res Bull. 1997;43(2):197-208.

The distribution of p75 neurotrophin receptor-immunoreactive cells in the
forebrain of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Maclean CJ(1), Baker HF, Fine A, Ridley RM.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Comparative Cognition Team, Department of Experimental Psychology,
Cambridge, UK.

The distribution of neurones that could be stained immunohistochemically with
antibody to the p75 neurotrophin protein was studied in the forebrain of the
common marmoset. The p75-immunoreactive forebrain cells appear to correspond to
choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive (i.e., cholinergic) neurones. Two
populations of cells could be distinguished on the basis of the intensity of p75 
immunostaining. Moderately stained cells correspond to cholinergic interneurones 
of the caudate and putamen, while intensely stained cells correspond to the
cholinergic neurones projecting to the cortex, amygdala, and hippocampus, located
in the septum, diagonal band, and basal nucleus of Meynert. The distribution of
cells of the diagonal band/basal nucleus complex is more extensive in the
marmoset than in other primate species, extending into parts of the
postcommissural fornix via the posterior septum, and by small projections dorsal 
to the anterior commissure and via the thalamic fasciculus from the basal
nucleus; the posterior extent of the basal nucleus continues extensively into the
lamina between the globus pallidus and the putamen.

DOI: 10.1016/s0361-9230(96)00441-8 
PMID: 9222533  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3715. Folia Primatol (Basel). 1997;68(1):1-22.

Ontogenetic variation in small-bodied New World primates: implications for
patterns of reproduction and infant care.

Garber PA(1), Leigh SR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anthropology, University of Illinois, Urbana 61801, USA.
p-garber@uiuc.edu

This paper explores relations of ontogeny, life history strategies and patterns
of infant care in 11 species of small-bodied New World monkeys. Analysis of these
data suggests that differences in the social systems of Aotus, Callicebus,
Saimiri, Callimico, Saguinus, Leontopithecus, Cebuella and Callithrix are closely
tied to both the costs of reproduction and to the ontogenetic requirements of
maturing young. In Saimiri, both rapid prenatal body weight and perinatal brain
growth result in relatively high metabolic costs to breeding females. These
costs, coupled with minimal nonmaternal assistance in caregiving, appear to favor
a reproductive strategy that limits offspring production to a single birth at
2-year intervals. In contrast, tamarins and marmosets are capable of producing
twins twice in the same year. Prenatal investment in each offspring is relatively
low, and the potentially high postnatal costs of nursing 2 infants are minimized 
by the evolution of a social system involving extensive extramaternal
care-giving. Cooperative infant care in callitrichins (tamarins and marmosets)
serves to distribute the metabolic costs of infant ontogeny among several group
members. Callimico is also characterized by a high reproductive output, with
females capable of producing a single infant twice during the year. Infants
continue to grow rapidly after weaning. Patterns of infant development in
Callimico are similar to those found in tamarins and marmosets and support a
close phylogenetic relationship among these taxa. Aotus and Callicebus are
characterized by an alternative strategy. In these taxa, a monogamous mating
system is associated with paternal certainty, male parental care, and
provisioning of the young. The transfer of male energetic resources to a single
offspring allows night and titi monkeys to maintain a comparatively short
interbirth interval (1 year). Ecological and social factors, such as predation
and feeding competition, do not appear to adequately explain much of the observed
variation in infant development and preadult growth rates in these platyrrhines. 
Instead, reproductive strategies are strongly linked to ontogenetic patterns and 
life histories.

DOI: 10.1159/000157226 
PMID: 9170641  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

