

3715. Folia Primatol (Basel). 1997;68(1):1-22.

Ontogenetic variation in small-bodied New World primates: implications for
patterns of reproduction and infant care.

Garber PA(1), Leigh SR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anthropology, University of Illinois, Urbana 61801, USA.
p-garber@uiuc.edu

This paper explores relations of ontogeny, life history strategies and patterns
of infant care in 11 species of small-bodied New World monkeys. Analysis of these
data suggests that differences in the social systems of Aotus, Callicebus,
Saimiri, Callimico, Saguinus, Leontopithecus, Cebuella and Callithrix are closely
tied to both the costs of reproduction and to the ontogenetic requirements of
maturing young. In Saimiri, both rapid prenatal body weight and perinatal brain
growth result in relatively high metabolic costs to breeding females. These
costs, coupled with minimal nonmaternal assistance in caregiving, appear to favor
a reproductive strategy that limits offspring production to a single birth at
2-year intervals. In contrast, tamarins and marmosets are capable of producing
twins twice in the same year. Prenatal investment in each offspring is relatively
low, and the potentially high postnatal costs of nursing 2 infants are minimized 
by the evolution of a social system involving extensive extramaternal
care-giving. Cooperative infant care in callitrichins (tamarins and marmosets)
serves to distribute the metabolic costs of infant ontogeny among several group
members. Callimico is also characterized by a high reproductive output, with
females capable of producing a single infant twice during the year. Infants
continue to grow rapidly after weaning. Patterns of infant development in
Callimico are similar to those found in tamarins and marmosets and support a
close phylogenetic relationship among these taxa. Aotus and Callicebus are
characterized by an alternative strategy. In these taxa, a monogamous mating
system is associated with paternal certainty, male parental care, and
provisioning of the young. The transfer of male energetic resources to a single
offspring allows night and titi monkeys to maintain a comparatively short
interbirth interval (1 year). Ecological and social factors, such as predation
and feeding competition, do not appear to adequately explain much of the observed
variation in infant development and preadult growth rates in these platyrrhines. 
Instead, reproductive strategies are strongly linked to ontogenetic patterns and 
life histories.

DOI: 10.1159/000157226 
PMID: 9170641  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3716. Electroencephalogr Clin Neurophysiol. 1997 Jan;104(1):43-50.

Brain-stem auditory evoked potentials in the common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus).

Harada T(1), Tokuriki M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Veterinary Physiology, Faculty of Agriculture, Yamaguchi
University, Japan.

Brain-stem auditory evoked potentials (BAEPs) were recorded in 10 common
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) to investigate the effects of recording electrode 
configurations, stimulus rate, and stimulus frequency on BAEP wave forms and peak
latencies. Tone burst stimulations were used to evaluate the effects of pure tone
on BAEP wave forms. Five positive peaks superimposed on positive and negative
slow potentials were identified in the BAEP recorded at the linkage between the
vertex and the dorsal base of the ear ipsilateral to a monaural stimulus. When
the reference electrode was placed at the ipsilateral mastoid or the neck, the
amplitudes of positive and negative slow potentials and the incidence of wave I
increased. There were no significant changes in peak latencies of BAEP waves with
changes in stimulus rate from 5 to 20/s. It was possible to record the BAEPs in
response to tone burst stimulations at frequencies extending from 0.5 to 99 kHz. 
Wave I appeared apparently at high stimulus frequencies; while waves III to V, at
low frequencies. Wave II was recorded at frequencies ranging from 0.5 to 99 kHz
and comprised a superposition of 2 or 3 potentials.

DOI: 10.1016/s0168-5597(96)96015-3 
PMID: 9076252  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

