

3722. Am J Primatol. 1997;41(3):179-93.

Development of an enzyme-immunoassay (EIA) for the measurement of
follicle-stimulating-hormone (FSH) in Callitrichid primates using a monoclonal
antibody against the human-FSH-beta-subunit.

Rosenbusch J(1), Dias JA, Hodges JK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Reproductive Biology, German Primate Center, Goettingen,
Germany.

Despite the importance of Callitrichid primates in both biomedical and
conservation research, practical and reliable immunoassays for the measurement of
follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) have not yet been described. A panel of
monoclonal antibodies against specific peptide fragments within either the alpha 
or beta subunit of human FSH was evaluated for their ability to recognize FSH
from Callitrichid and other New World primates. One of these, monoclonal antibody
46.3h6.b7 raised against human FSH, was selected due to its ability to recognize 
marmoset monkey FSH and its low crossreactivity with other gonadotrophins. The
antibody formed the basis of an enzymeimmunoassay using a highly purified human
urinary FSH (Metrodin, Serono) preparation coupled to biotin as label and
unmodified as standard. After 24 h incubation, antibody bound label was
visualized by addition of streptavidin-peroxidase followed by the appropriate
substrate. Parallelism was obtained between the standard and dilutions of
pituitary extracts, urine and plasma from the common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus) as well as from two tamarin species (Saguinus fuscicollis and S.
oedipus) and one squirrel monkey (Saimiri sciureus). Profiles of plasma and
urinary FSH during the follicular phase are shown for two individual marmosets.
The ability to measure FSH in Callitrichidae provides new opportunities for
studies of the reproductive biology of these New World primate species.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1098-2345(1997)41:3<179::AID-AJP2>3.0.CO;2-U 
PMID: 9057964  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3723. Am J Primatol. 1997;41(3):159-77.

Familial influences on ovulatory function in common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus).

Saltzman W(1), Schultz-Darken NJ, Abbott DH.

Author information: 
(1)Wisconsin Regional Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin, Madison
53715-1299, USA.

Previous studies have indicated that many, but not all, female common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus) housed with their natal families undergo social suppression 
of ovulation. In this study, we further characterized ovulatory activity in
common marmoset daughters to determine the prevalence of social suppression of
ovulation and to elucidate familial influences on daughters' ovarian activity.
Blood samples were collected twice weekly from each of 46 daughters for 5-12
months, usually beginning when the daughters were 12 months of age. Plasma
progesterone concentrations indicated that 46.3% of daughters in intact natal
families ovulated at least once, with the age at first ovulation averaging 17.2
months; however, none of these daughters became pregnant. Daughters' ovulatory
cycles showed several significant differences from those of older females housed 
with unrelated adults, including longer periods between successive luteal phases,
shorter luteal phases, and lower peak and mean luteal-phase progesterone levels. 
Daughters were significantly more likely to ovulate in families in which the
mother was experimentally prevented from sustaining pregnancies, and in families 
in which the father had been replaced by an unrelated adult male and when the
daughter was approximately 10-11 months of age. Daughters in families containing 
an older sister never ovulated; in contrast, those with a female littermate were 
not less likely to ovulate than were other daughters, but had more sporadic
ovarian cycles and significantly lower mean luteal-phase progesterone levels.
These results confirm and extend previous findings that up to half of female
common marmosets may ovulate while housed with the natal family but that
virtually none sustain pregnancies, suggesting that suppression of ovulation is
only one of several components of reproductive failure. Furthermore, these
results demonstrate that daughters' likelihood of ovulating, as well as the
endocrine profiles of their ovulatory cycles, can be modulated by numerous social
influences within the family.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1098-2345(1997)41:3<159::AID-AJP1>3.0.CO;2-W 
PMID: 9057963  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

