

3723. Am J Primatol. 1997;41(3):159-77.

Familial influences on ovulatory function in common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus).

Saltzman W(1), Schultz-Darken NJ, Abbott DH.

Author information: 
(1)Wisconsin Regional Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin, Madison
53715-1299, USA.

Previous studies have indicated that many, but not all, female common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus) housed with their natal families undergo social suppression 
of ovulation. In this study, we further characterized ovulatory activity in
common marmoset daughters to determine the prevalence of social suppression of
ovulation and to elucidate familial influences on daughters' ovarian activity.
Blood samples were collected twice weekly from each of 46 daughters for 5-12
months, usually beginning when the daughters were 12 months of age. Plasma
progesterone concentrations indicated that 46.3% of daughters in intact natal
families ovulated at least once, with the age at first ovulation averaging 17.2
months; however, none of these daughters became pregnant. Daughters' ovulatory
cycles showed several significant differences from those of older females housed 
with unrelated adults, including longer periods between successive luteal phases,
shorter luteal phases, and lower peak and mean luteal-phase progesterone levels. 
Daughters were significantly more likely to ovulate in families in which the
mother was experimentally prevented from sustaining pregnancies, and in families 
in which the father had been replaced by an unrelated adult male and when the
daughter was approximately 10-11 months of age. Daughters in families containing 
an older sister never ovulated; in contrast, those with a female littermate were 
not less likely to ovulate than were other daughters, but had more sporadic
ovarian cycles and significantly lower mean luteal-phase progesterone levels.
These results confirm and extend previous findings that up to half of female
common marmosets may ovulate while housed with the natal family but that
virtually none sustain pregnancies, suggesting that suppression of ovulation is
only one of several components of reproductive failure. Furthermore, these
results demonstrate that daughters' likelihood of ovulating, as well as the
endocrine profiles of their ovulatory cycles, can be modulated by numerous social
influences within the family.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1098-2345(1997)41:3<159::AID-AJP1>3.0.CO;2-W 
PMID: 9057963  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3724. Vis Neurosci. 1997 Jan-Feb;14(1):125-40.

The morphology and distribution of horizontal cells in the retina of a New World 
monkey, the marmoset Callithrix jacchus: a comparison with macaque monkey.

Chan TL(1), Goodchild AK, Martin PR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, University of Sydney, NSW, Australia.

The morphology and distribution of horizontal cells was studied in the retina of 
a New World monkey, the marmoset, Callithrix jacchus, and compared with that of
the Old World macaque monkey. Horizontal cells in macaque and marmoset were
either labelled with the carbocyanine dye, DiI, and then photoconverted, or were 
labelled by intracellular injection with Neurobiotin. The marmoset has two types 
of horizontal cell, H1 and H2, which have dendritic and axonal morphology similar
to their counterparts in Old World monkeys and human. The dendritic-field size of
both cell types increases with distance from the fovca. Both types make contact
with the vast majority of the cones within their dendritic field. The dendrites
of H1 cells in marmoset contact almost twice as many cones as H1 cells in macaque
at an equivalent eccentricity. With increasing distance from the fovea, H1 cells 
make contact with more cones but have, on average, fewer terminal knobs inserted 
in each cone. The increase in dendritic-field area of H1 cells is balanced by a
decrease in spatial density (from 4500 cells/mm2 at 25 deg eccentricity to 1000
cells/mm2 in far peripheral retina), so coverage of the retina remains fairly
constant, between 5 and 8. Overall, the results show that the qualitative
morphological properties, as well as quantitative population properties of
horizontal cells, are common to both New World and Old World primates.

DOI: 10.1017/s0952523800008828 
PMID: 9057275  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

