

3725. Am J Primatol. 1997;41(2):129-39.

Age of epiphyseal closure in tamarins and marmosets.

Kohn LA(1), Olson P, Cheverud JM.

Author information: 
(1)Program in Occupational Therapy, Washington University School of Medicine, St.
Louis, Missouri 63108, USA.

Estimates of the chronological age for animals of unknown age provide useful
information for medical, demographic, and evolutionary studies. Skeletal
development, as indicated by epiphyseal closure, can be used to estimate an
animal's chronological age or specify its stage of development. Many studies of
Primate skeletal development have used animals of unknown age, with the order of 
epiphyseal closure providing a relative age for each animal. This study examines 
the age of epiphyseal closure at 22 epiphyseal sites using animals of known age
at death in three calitrichid species (Saguinus fuscicollis, Saguinus oedipus,
and Callithrix jacchus). The observed average age of epiphyseal closure is
similar in these tamarins and marmosets. There is a significant difference in
rate of development between the species. Regression equations can predict the age
of unknown animals to within 4.8 months for S. fuscicollis, 8.6 months for S.
oedipus, and 7.6 months for C. jacchus (twice the standard error of the
estimate). These age estimates allow us to determine if an animal is relatively
mature or immature, but are largely unacceptable for studies in which precise age
estimates are necessary. The order of epiphyseal closure is similar across 11
monkey species (using additional data from published literature) and supports the
suggestion of a general pattern in Primate skeletal development.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1098-2345(1997)41:2<129::AID-AJP5>3.0.CO;2-Z 
PMID: 9050370  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3726. Hum Reprod. 1997 Jan;12(1):107-11.

Location and developmental regulation of androgen receptor in primate ovary.

Hillier SG(1), Tetsuka M, Fraser HM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, University of Edinburgh Centre for
Reproductive Biology, UK.

Locally produced androgens act via granulosa cell androgen receptors to modulate 
follicular responsiveness to gonadotrophins and thereby contribute to the
paracrine regulation of ovarian function. We used quantitative androgen receptor 
immunocytochemistry to assess androgen receptor distribution in relation to
pre-ovulatory follicular development in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus),
a New World primate that ovulates two to four follicles in each approximately 28 
day ovarian cycle. Ovaries from four adult females in the late follicular phase
and from four in the luteal phase were fixed in 4% paraformaldehyde and subjected
to an immunocytochemical analysis using a polyclonal androgen receptor antibody
with detection by a standard avidin-biotin-peroxidase technique for alkaline
phosphatase. Specific androgen receptor immunostaining occurred mainly in
granulosa cell nuclei, with little or no specific staining in theca, stroma or
oocytes. Granulosa cell androgen receptor immunostaining was most abundant in
healthy preantral/early antral follicles, being low or absent from pre-ovulatory 
follicles and corpora lutea. Differences in granulosa cell androgen receptor
immunostaining between immature (0.1-1.0 mm diameter) and pre-ovulatory (> or =
2.0 mm diameter) follicles were quantified using a videodensitometric analysis of
grey-scale values. Readings were taken from the granulosa cell layers of 53
immature follicles and 10 pre-ovulatory follicles in late follicular phase
ovaries. The average androgen receptor level in granulosa cells of immature
follicles proved to be 4.2-fold higher (P < 0.01) than that in granulosa cells of
pre-ovulatory follicles. Because other evidence suggests that paracrine androgen 
action in granulosa cells converts from stimulation to inhibition as follicles
mature, we speculate that a development-related reduction in androgen receptor
numbers serves to "protect' granulosa cells against the inhibitory action of
androgen, thereby promoting pre-ovulatory follicular dominance in primate ovarian
cycles.

DOI: 10.1093/humrep/12.1.107 
PMID: 9043913  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

