

3726. Hum Reprod. 1997 Jan;12(1):107-11.

Location and developmental regulation of androgen receptor in primate ovary.

Hillier SG(1), Tetsuka M, Fraser HM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, University of Edinburgh Centre for
Reproductive Biology, UK.

Locally produced androgens act via granulosa cell androgen receptors to modulate 
follicular responsiveness to gonadotrophins and thereby contribute to the
paracrine regulation of ovarian function. We used quantitative androgen receptor 
immunocytochemistry to assess androgen receptor distribution in relation to
pre-ovulatory follicular development in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus),
a New World primate that ovulates two to four follicles in each approximately 28 
day ovarian cycle. Ovaries from four adult females in the late follicular phase
and from four in the luteal phase were fixed in 4% paraformaldehyde and subjected
to an immunocytochemical analysis using a polyclonal androgen receptor antibody
with detection by a standard avidin-biotin-peroxidase technique for alkaline
phosphatase. Specific androgen receptor immunostaining occurred mainly in
granulosa cell nuclei, with little or no specific staining in theca, stroma or
oocytes. Granulosa cell androgen receptor immunostaining was most abundant in
healthy preantral/early antral follicles, being low or absent from pre-ovulatory 
follicles and corpora lutea. Differences in granulosa cell androgen receptor
immunostaining between immature (0.1-1.0 mm diameter) and pre-ovulatory (> or =
2.0 mm diameter) follicles were quantified using a videodensitometric analysis of
grey-scale values. Readings were taken from the granulosa cell layers of 53
immature follicles and 10 pre-ovulatory follicles in late follicular phase
ovaries. The average androgen receptor level in granulosa cells of immature
follicles proved to be 4.2-fold higher (P < 0.01) than that in granulosa cells of
pre-ovulatory follicles. Because other evidence suggests that paracrine androgen 
action in granulosa cells converts from stimulation to inhibition as follicles
mature, we speculate that a development-related reduction in androgen receptor
numbers serves to "protect' granulosa cells against the inhibitory action of
androgen, thereby promoting pre-ovulatory follicular dominance in primate ovarian
cycles.

DOI: 10.1093/humrep/12.1.107 
PMID: 9043913  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3727. Ann R Coll Surg Engl. 1997 Jan;79(1):28-37.

The role of mandibular condylar cartilage in articular cartilage repair.

Girdler NM(1).

Author information: 
(1)University of Newcastle, Dental School and Hospital, Newcastle upon Tyne.

The articular hyaline cartilage of synovial joints has a very limited capacity
for repair after injury. In contrast, the mandibular condylar cartilage of the
temporomandibular joint possesses as intrinsic potential for regeneration. This
study aimed to test the hypothesis that cultured allografts of mandibular
condylar cartilage could be used to promote biological repair of injured
orthotopic joint surfaces. Using a primate animal model, cultures of mandibular
condylar cartilage cells were grafted into surgically created defects in a
recipient hyaline cartilage joint surface. Articular wound healing was assessed
macroscopically and histologically over a postoperative period of 52 weeks.
Mandibular condylar cartilage cells scheduled for allogenous transplantation were
initially characterised in vitro. Expansion of primary colonies in organ culture 
provided the allogenic cellular material for in vivo grafting. Grafting of
osteochondral articular wounds with 5-week cultures of mandibular cartilage cells
led to wound regeneration with complete reconstitution of articular surface
continuity by 52 weeks. There was novel synthesis of cartilage collagens and
sulphated glycosaminoglycans within the repair tissue and no evidence of
immunological rejection. Healing of grafted defects was thought to occur by a
combination of donor cell proliferation and ingress of host mesenchymal cells. In
contrast, grafted control wounds underwent largely fibrous repair with incomplete
articular regeneration. In conclusion, transplanted allografts of cultured
mandibular condylar cartilage appeared to have the ability, in this primate
model, to promote cartilaginous repair and regeneration of orthotopic articular
wounds.


PMCID: PMC2502635
PMID: 9038492  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

