

3727. Ann R Coll Surg Engl. 1997 Jan;79(1):28-37.

The role of mandibular condylar cartilage in articular cartilage repair.

Girdler NM(1).

Author information: 
(1)University of Newcastle, Dental School and Hospital, Newcastle upon Tyne.

The articular hyaline cartilage of synovial joints has a very limited capacity
for repair after injury. In contrast, the mandibular condylar cartilage of the
temporomandibular joint possesses as intrinsic potential for regeneration. This
study aimed to test the hypothesis that cultured allografts of mandibular
condylar cartilage could be used to promote biological repair of injured
orthotopic joint surfaces. Using a primate animal model, cultures of mandibular
condylar cartilage cells were grafted into surgically created defects in a
recipient hyaline cartilage joint surface. Articular wound healing was assessed
macroscopically and histologically over a postoperative period of 52 weeks.
Mandibular condylar cartilage cells scheduled for allogenous transplantation were
initially characterised in vitro. Expansion of primary colonies in organ culture 
provided the allogenic cellular material for in vivo grafting. Grafting of
osteochondral articular wounds with 5-week cultures of mandibular cartilage cells
led to wound regeneration with complete reconstitution of articular surface
continuity by 52 weeks. There was novel synthesis of cartilage collagens and
sulphated glycosaminoglycans within the repair tissue and no evidence of
immunological rejection. Healing of grafted defects was thought to occur by a
combination of donor cell proliferation and ingress of host mesenchymal cells. In
contrast, grafted control wounds underwent largely fibrous repair with incomplete
articular regeneration. In conclusion, transplanted allografts of cultured
mandibular condylar cartilage appeared to have the ability, in this primate
model, to promote cartilaginous repair and regeneration of orthotopic articular
wounds.


PMCID: PMC2502635
PMID: 9038492  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3728. J Gen Virol. 1997 Jan;78 ( Pt 1):97-106.

Sequence divergence of measles virus haemagglutinin during natural evolution and 
adaptation to cell culture.

Rima BK(1), Earle JA, Baczko K, ter Meulen V, Liebert UG, Carstens C, Carabaña J,
Caballero M, Celma ML, Fernandez-Muñoz R.

Author information: 
(1)School of Biology and Biochemistry, The Queen's University of Belfast, UK.
b.rima@qub.ac.uk

Phylogenetic analysis of the sequence of the H gene of 75 measles virus (MV)
strains (32 published and 43 new sequences) was carried out. The lineage groups
described from comparison of the nucleotide sequences encoding the C-terminal
regions of the N protein of MV were the same as those derived from the H gene
sequences in almost all cases. The databases document a number of distinct
genotype switches that have occurred in Madrid (Spain). Well-documented is the
complete replacement of lineage group C2, the common European genotype at that
time, with that of group D3 around the autumn of 1993. No further isolations of
group C2 took place in Madrid after this time. The rate of mutation of the H gene
sequences of MV genotype D3 circulating in Madrid from 1993 to 1996 was very low 
(5 x 10(-4) per annum for a given nucleotide position). This is an order of
magnitude lower than the rates of mutation observed in the HN genes of human
influenza A viruses. The ratio of expressed over silent mutations indicated that 
the divergence was not driven by immune selection in this gene. Variations in
amino acid 117 of the H protein (F or L) may be related to the ability of some
strains to haemagglutinate only in the presence of salt. Adaptation of MV to
different primate cell types was associated with very small numbers of mutations 
in the H gene. The changes could not be predicted when virus previously grown in 
human B cell lines was adapted to monkey Vero cells. In contrast, rodent
brain-adapted viruses displayed a lot of amino acid sequence variation from
normal MV strains. There was no convincing evidence for recombination between MV 
genotypes.

DOI: 10.1099/0022-1317-78-1-97 
PMID: 9010291  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

