

373. Cryobiology. 2020 Feb 1;92:215-230. doi: 10.1016/j.cryobiol.2020.01.015. Epub
2020 Jan 20.

Effect of 'in air' freezing on post-thaw recovery of Callithrix jacchus
mesenchymal stromal cells and properties of 3D collagen-hydroxyapatite scaffolds.

Mutsenko V(1), Knaack S(2), Lauterboeck L(3), Tarusin D(4), Sydykov B(5),
Cabiscol R(6), Ivnev D(7), Belikan J(8), Beck A(9), Dipresa D(9), Lode A(2), El
Khassawna T(10), Kampschulte M(8), Scharf R(7), Petrenko AY(4), Korossis S(11),
Wolkers WF(5), Gelinsky M(2), Glasmacher B(5), Gryshkov O(5).

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Multiphase Processes, Leibniz University Hannover, Hannover,
Germany. Electronic address: mutsenko@imp.uni-hannover.de.
(2)Centre for Translational Bone, Joint and Soft Tissue Research, Faculty of
Medicine of Technische Universität Dresden, Dresden, Germany.
(3)Cardiovascular Center of Excellence, Louisiana State University Health
Sciences Center New Orleans, USA.
(4)Institute for Problems of Cryobiology and Cryomedicine, National Academy of
Sciences of Ukraine, Kharkiv, Ukraine.
(5)Institute for Multiphase Processes, Leibniz University Hannover, Hannover,
Germany.
(6)Institute for Particle Technology, Technische Universität Braunschweig,
Braunschweig, Germany.
(7)Institute of Power Plant Engineering and Heat Transfer, Leibniz University
Hannover, Hannover, Germany.
(8)Department of Radiology, University Hospital of Giessen Marburg, Giessen,
Germany.
(9)Department of Cardiothoracic, Transplantation and Vascular Surgery, Hannover
Medical School, Hannover, Germany.
(10)Experimental Trauma Surgery, Faculty of Medicine, Justus-Liebig-Universität
Gießen, Gießen, Germany.
(11)Department of Cardiothoracic, Transplantation and Vascular Surgery, Hannover 
Medical School, Hannover, Germany; Centre for Biological Engineering, Wolfson
School for Mechanical Electrical and Manufacturing Engineering, University of
Loughborough, Loughborough, United Kingdom.

Through enabling an efficient supply of cells and tissues in the health sector on
demand, cryopreservation is increasingly becoming one of the mainstream
technologies in rapid translation and commercialization of regenerative medicine 
research. Cryopreservation of tissue-engineered constructs (TECs) is an emerging 
trend that requires the development of practically competitive biobanking
technologies. In our previous studies, we demonstrated that conventional
slow-freezing using dimethyl sulfoxide (Me2SO) does not provide sufficient
protection of mesenchymal stromal cells (MSCs) frozen in 3D
collagen-hydroxyapatite scaffolds. After simple modifications to a
cryopreservation protocol, we report on significantly improved cryopreservation
of TECs. Porous 3D scaffolds were fabricated using freeze-drying of a mineralized
collagen suspension and following chemical crosslinking. Amnion-derived MSCs from
common marmoset monkey Callithrix jacchus were seeded onto scaffolds in static
conditions. Cell-seeded scaffolds were subjected to 24 h pre-treatment with
100 mM sucrose and slow freezing in 10% Me2SO/20% FBS alone or supplemented with 
300 mM sucrose. Scaffolds were frozen 'in air' and thawed using a two-step
procedure. Diverse analytical methods were used for the interpretation of
cryopreservation outcome for both cell-seeded and cell-free scaffolds. In both
groups, cells exhibited their typical shape and well-preserved cell-cell and
cell-matrix contacts after thawing. Moreover, viability test 24 h post-thaw
demonstrated that application of sucrose in the cryoprotective solution preserves
a significantly greater portion of sucrose-pretreated cells (more than 80%) in
comparison to Me2SO alone (60%). No differences in overall protein structure and 
porosity of frozen scaffolds were revealed whereas their compressive stress was
lower than in the control group. In conclusion, this approach holds promise for
the cryopreservation of 'ready-to-use' TECs.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cryobiol.2020.01.015 
PMID: 31972153  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors
declare that they have no conflict of interests.


374. J Neurophysiol. 2020 Mar 1;123(3):896-911. doi: 10.1152/jn.00614.2019. Epub 2020 
Jan 22.

Single-unit activity in marmoset posterior parietal cortex in a gap saccade task.

Ma L(1), Selvanayagam J(2), Ghahremani M(2), Hayrynen LK(1), Johnston KD(3),
Everling S(1)(2)(3)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Robarts Research Institute, University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario,
Canada.
(2)Graduate Program in Neuroscience, University of Western Ontario, London,
Ontario, Canada.
(3)Departments of Physiology and Pharmacology, University of Western Ontario,
London, Ontario, Canada.
(4)Brain and Mind Institute, University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario,
Canada.

Abnormal saccadic eye movements can serve as biomarkers for patients with several
neuropsychiatric disorders. The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is becoming 
increasingly popular as a nonhuman primate model to investigate the cortical
mechanisms of saccadic control. Recently, our group demonstrated that
microstimulation in the posterior parietal cortex (PPC) of marmosets elicits
contralateral saccades. Here we recorded single-unit activity in the PPC of the
same two marmosets using chronic microelectrode arrays while the monkeys
performed a saccadic task with gap trials (target onset lagged fixation point
offset by 200 ms) interleaved with step trials (fixation point disappeared when
the peripheral target appeared). Both marmosets showed a gap effect, shorter
saccadic reaction times (SRTs) in gap vs. step trials. On average, stronger
gap-period responses across the entire neuronal population preceded shorter SRTs 
on trials with contralateral targets although this correlation was stronger among
the 15% "gap neurons," which responded significantly during the gap. We also
found 39% "target neurons" with significant saccadic target-related responses,
which were stronger in gap trials and correlated with the SRTs better than the
remaining neurons. Compared with saccades with relatively long SRTs, short-SRT
saccades were preceded by both stronger gap-related and target-related responses 
in all PPC neurons, regardless of whether such response reached significance. Our
findings suggest that the PPC in the marmoset contains an area that is involved
in the modulation of saccadic preparation.NEW & NOTEWORTHY As a primate model in 
systems neuroscience, the marmoset is a great complement to the macaque monkey
because of its unique advantages. To identify oculomotor networks in the
marmoset, we recorded from the marmoset posterior parietal cortex during a
saccadic task and found single-unit activities consistent with a role in saccadic
modulation. This finding supports the marmoset as a valuable model for studying
oculomotor control.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00614.2019 
PMID: 31967927  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

