

3730. Clin Microbiol Rev. 1997 Jan;10(1):19-34.

Biology of Isospora spp. from humans, nonhuman primates, and domestic animals.

Lindsay DS(1), Dubey JP, Blagburn BL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathobiology, College of Veterinary Medicine, Auburn University,
Alabama 36849-5519, USA. lindsds@vetmed.auburn.edu

Coccidial parasites of the genus Isospora cause intestinal disease in several
mammalian host species. These protozoal parasites have asexual and sexual stages 
within intestinal cells of their hosts and produce an environmentally resistant
cyst stage, the oocyst. Infections are acquired by the ingestion of infective
(sporulated) oocysts in contaminated food or water. Some species of mammalian
Isospora have evolved the ability to use paratenic (transport) hosts. In these
cases, infections can be acquired by ingestion of an infected paratenic host.
Human intestinal isosporiasis is caused by Isospora belli. Symptoms of I. belli
infection in immunocompetent patients include diarrhea, steatorrhea, headache,
fever, malaise, abdominal pain, vomiting, dehydration, and weight loss, blood is 
not usually present in the feces. The disease is often chronic, with parasites
present in the feces or biopsy specimens for several months to years. Recurrences
are common, Symptoms are more severe in AIDS patients, with the diarrhea being
more watery. Extraintestinal stages of I. belli have been observed in AIDS
patients but not immunocompetent patients. Treatment of I. belli infection with
trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole usually results in a rapid clinical response.
Maintenance treatment with trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole is needed because
relapses often occur once treatment is stopped.

DOI: 10.1128/CMR.10.1.19 
PMCID: PMC172913
PMID: 8993857  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3731. Anat Rec. 1997 Jan;247(1):46-52.

Cardiac-like musculature of the intrapulmonary venous wall of the long-clawed
shrew (Sorex unguiculatus), common tree shrew (Tupaia glis) and common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus).

Endo H(1), Mifune H, Maeda S, Kimura J, Yamada J, Rerkamnuaychoke W,
Chungsamarnyart N, Ogawa K, Kurohmaru M, Hayashi Y, Nishida T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Zoology, National Science Museum, Tokyo, Japan.

BACKGROUND: The cardiac-like musculature is distributed not only in the heart
wall but also in the intrapulmonary venous wall in a few species of insectivores.
It has been suggested that the evolutionary origin of venous cardiac-like
musculature may be traceable to a basic stock of certain mammalian lines of
descent. So, it is important to clarify whether the musculature may be a common
structure in lower mammals from insectivores to primates and to examine the
functional significance of the structure.
METHODS: The distribution of cardiac-like musculature in the intrapulmonary
venous wall of the long-clawed shrew (Sorex unguiculatus), common tree shrew
(Tupaia glis), and common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) was observed by light and
electron microscopy. The presence of atrial natriuretic polypeptide (ANP) was
examined in the musculature by immunohistochemistry.
RESULTS: All three species contained cardiac-like myocytes in the tunica media of
intrapulmonary venous wall. In the common tree shrew and the common marmoset,
cardiac-like musculature was found in the small intrapulmonary vein of 150-200
microns in diameter, while, in the long-clawed shrew, it was distributed even in 
the intrapulmonary vein of 30 microns in diameter. Ultrastructure of myocytes was
fundamentally similar to that of atrial myocytes in the long-clawed shrew and the
common tree shrew. The presence of atrial natriuretic polypeptide (ANP) was also 
demonstrated by immunohistochemistry in the intrapulmonary venous walls of common
tree shrews.
CONCLUSIONS: The results indicate that the pulmonary venous cardiac-like
musculature occurs in the lower eutherian mammals from insectivores to primitive 
primates. The musculature is thought to act as a regulatory pump in pulmonary
circulation and as an endocrine apparatus of ANP.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1097-0185(199701)247:1<46::AID-AR7>3.0.CO;2-D 
PMID: 8986302  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

