

3736. J Neurophysiol. 1996 Dec;76(6):3633-55.

Parallel processing in cerebral cortex of the marmoset monkey: effect of
reversible SI inactivation on tactile responses in SII.

Zhang HQ(1), Murray GM, Turman AB, Mackie PD, Coleman GT, Rowe MJ.

Author information: 
(1)School of Physiology and Pharmacology, University of New South Wales, Sydney, 
Australia.

1. Responsiveness within the hand region of the second somatosensory area of
cortex (SII) was investigated in the marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus) in
association with cooling-induced, reversible inactivation of the primary
somatosensory area, SI. The aims were to determine whether thalamocortical
systems in this primate species are organized according to a serial scheme in
which tactile information is conveyed from the thalamus to SI and thence to SII
as the next hierarchical level of processing and to establish whether primates
are fundamentally different, in this respect, from mammals in which tactile
information is conveyed in parallel from the thalamus to both SI and SII. 2.
Inactivation of the SI had area was achieved when the temperature at the face of 
the silver cooling block over this SI region was lowered to < or = 13 degrees C. 
Inactivation was confirmed by abolition of the SI surface potential evoked by a
brief tap stimulus to the hand and by the abolition of responsiveness in single
SI neurons located beneath and around the edge of the block. 3. The effect of SI 
inactivation on SII-evoked potentials was investigated in 20 experiments by
simultaneous recording of the SI- and SII-evoked potentials. The SII response was
never abolished and was unchanged in the majority (12/20) of experiments. In the 
remainder, the SII-evoked potentials underwent a reduction in amplitude that was 
usually < 30% but never > 50%. 4. Tactile responsiveness was examined
quantitatively in 47 individual SII neurons of different functional classes
before, during, and after the inactivation of SI. Controlled tactile stimuli
consisted of trains of sinusoidal vibration or rectangular pulses delivered to
the glabrous or hairy skin of the hand. 5. Thirteen of the 47 SII neurons (28%)
were unaffected in their response levels in association with SI inactivation. The
remaining 34 SII neurons underwent some reduction in responsiveness, but in only 
6% (3/47) was responsiveness abolished by SI inactivation. As the same range of
functional classes of tactile neurons were represented among the affected and
unaffected SII neurons, there was no evidence for a differential susceptibility
among SII tactile neurons to the effect of SI inactivation. 6. Where reductions
in amplitude of the SII-evoked potential or in response levels of SII neurons
were observed, the effects were not attributable to direct spread of cooling from
SI to the SII hand area as there was no cooling-induced prolongation of either
the evoked potential or spike waveform in SII, an effect that is known to precede
cooling-induced reductions in responsiveness. 7. These lines of evidence indicate
that reductions in SII responsiveness in association with SI inactivation may be 
attributable to a loss of a background facilitatory influence rather than to a
blockage of a component of peripheral input that comes over a putative serial
path to SII via SI. First, as SI was cooled, there was a progressive increase in 
latency and time course of the SI responses before their disappearance, but no
comparable delay in the SII responses as might be expected if SI were placed
earlier than SII in a strict hierarchical scheme of thalamocortical processing.
Second, SI inactivation failed to bring about a tightening in the phase-locking
of SII responses to vibrotactile stimuli as might have been expected if the
inputs to the SII neurons come via both a direct path from the thalamus and an
indirect intracortical path via SI. Blockage of the indirect intracortical
pathway through SI might be expected to reduce temporal dispersion in the input
to SII neurons and result in an improvement in phase-locking in the SII responses
to skin vibration. Third, the background activity of some SII neurons was reduced
during SI inactivation along with the reduction in their responses to tactile
stimulation.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.1996.76.6.3633 
PMID: 8985863  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3737. Anesthesiology. 1996 Dec;85(6):1454-61.

Cysteine conjugate beta-lyase-dependent biotransformation of the cysteine
S-conjugates of the sevoflurane degradation product compound A in human, nonhuman
primate, and rat kidney cytosol and mitochondria.

Iyer RA(1), Anders MW.

Author information: 
(1)University of Rochester, Department of Pharmacology, New York 14642, USA.

BACKGROUND: 2-(Fluoromethoxy)-1,1,3,3,3-pentafluoro-1-propene (compound A) is a
fluorinated alkene formed by the degradation of sevoflurane in the anesthesia
circuit. Compound A is toxic to the kidneys in rats and undergoes
glutathione-dependent metabolism in vivo. Several nephrotoxic halogenated alkenes
also undergo cysteine conjugate beta-lyase-dependent biotransformation. These
experiments were designed to test the hypothesis that cysteine S-conjugates of
compound A undergo beta-lyase-dependent biotransformation.
METHODS: S-[2-(Fluoromethoxy)-1,1,3,3,3-pentafluoropropyl]-L-cysteine 4,
S-[2-(fluoromethoxy)-1,3,3,3-tetrafluoro-1-propenyl]-L-cysteine 5, and
S-(2-chloro-1,1,2-trifluoroethyl)-L-cysteine 11 were incubated with rat, human,
and nonhuman primate (cynomolgus, rhesus, and marmoset) kidney cytosol and
mitochondria. beta-Lyase activity was determined by measuring pyruvate formation.
RESULTS: Compound A-derived conjugates 4 and 5 as well as conjugate 11, a
positive control, were substrates for cytosolic and mitochondrial beta-lyase from
human, nonhuman primate, and rat kidney. For all substrates, beta-lyase activity 
was highest in the rat and lowest in the human and was higher in cytosol than in 
mitochondria. Conjugate 11 was a much better substrate than conjugates 4 or 5.
The biotransformation of conjugates 4, 5, and 11 was inhibited by the beta-lyase 
inhibitor (aminooxy)acetic acid and was stimulated by the amino group acceptor
2-keto-4-methylthiolbutyric acid, indicating a role for beta-lyase.
CONCLUSIONS: These data confirm the presence of beta-lyase activity in human and 
rat kidney and show that activity is also present in kidney tissue from nonhuman 
primates. The data also show that compound A-derived conjugates 4 and 5 undergo
beta-lyase-catalyzed biotransformation. beta-Lyase activity in rat and nonhuman
primate kidney tissue was 8 to 30 times and one- to three times, respectively,
higher than in human kidney tissue.

DOI: 10.1097/00000542-199612000-00028 
PMID: 8968194  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

