

3744. J Endocrinol. 1996 Nov;151(2):203-13.

Expression of tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases-1 in the primate ovary
during induced luteal regression.

Duncan WC(1), Illingworth PJ, Fraser HM.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Reproductive Biology Unit, Centre for Reproductive Biology, Edinburgh, UK.

Although tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases-1 (TIMP-1) is one of the major
secretory products of the corpus luteum, the functional significance of this is
not clear. In addition to its role as a specific inhibitor of the matrix
metalloproteinase enzymes involved in tissue remodelling, it has recently been
suggested that TIMP-1 is also a potent stimulator of steroidogenesis in vitro.
However, in the ruminant, TIMP-1 expression increases during luteal regression.
This study sought to determine (i) the effect of induced luteal regression on
ovarian TIMP-1 expression in the primate and (ii) the expression of TIMP-1 in
other steroidogenic and non-steroidogenic tissues. Marmoset ovaries were studied 
on day 10 of the normal luteal phase and 12 and 24 h after induced luteolysis,
with either gonadotrophin-releasing hormone (GnRH) antagonist or prostaglandin F2
alpha analogue. Ovaries from different stages of the normal ovarian cycle were
also studied. Expression of TIMP-1 was investigated by isotopic in situ
hybridisation. TIMP-1 expression was also examined in a wide range of other
marmoset tissues by Northern blotting and in situ hybridisation. TIMP-1 was found
to be highly expressed in the marmoset corpus luteum. Luteolysis induced with
either prostaglandin F2 alpha or GnRH antagonist was associated with a
significant fall in TIMP-1 expression in luteal tissue. TIMP-1 mRNA was also
localised to ovarian follicles throughout the ovarian cycle. Expression occurred 
in the thecal layer of smaller follicles (< 1.5 mm) and the granulosal layer of
larger pre-ovulatory follicles. In atretic follicles, TIMP-1 was highly expressed
at the interface between the thecal and granulosal cells. TIMP-1 was found to be 
predominantly expressed in steroidogenic tissues, particularly the ovary, adrenal
and placenta. These data support a role for changes in TIMP-1 expression in
tissue remodelling in the ovary and are consistent with an additional function of
TIMP-1 as a facilitator of steroidogenesis.

DOI: 10.1677/joe.0.1510203 
PMID: 8958780  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3745. Biol Pharm Bull. 1996 Nov;19(11):1429-33.

Stereoselectivity in bunitrolol 4-hydroxylation in liver microsomes from
marmosets and Japanese monkeys.

Narimatsu S(1), Gotoh M, Masubuchi Y, Horie T, Ohmori S, Kitada M, Kageyama T,
Asaoka K, Yamamoto I, Suzuki T.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Biopharmaceutics, Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Chiba
University, Japan.

The stereoselectivity in 4-hydroxylation of bunitrolol (BTL), a
beta-adrenoreceptor blocking agent, was examined in liver microsomes from monkeys
(marmosets and Japanese monkeys) and compared with the results of human liver
microsomes. The formation of (+)-4-OH-BTL from (+)-BTL from (+)-BTL was
significantly higher than that of (-)-4-OH-BTL from (-)-BTL in the liver
microsomal fractions from the two kinds of monkeys. The 4-OH-BTL-forming activity
from racemic BTL was significantly lower than from enantiomeric BTL, indicating a
possible metabolic interaction between BTL enantiomers. The in vitro profiles
observed in the monkeys were very similar to those in humans, but the
stereoselectivity in BTL metabolism [(+)-BTL > (-)-BTL] in the primates was found
to be reverse to that in rats [S. Narimatsu et al., Anal. Biochem., 222, 256-261 
(1994)]. The 4-OH-BTL-forming activity from BTL enantiomers was significantly
suppressed by quinidine and quinine, while the former was more potent than the
latter, and also by alpha-naphthoflavone. Furthermore, the activity was also
suppressed by antisera against rat cytochromes P450-2D2 and -1A2 in
concentration-dependent manners. However, kinetics showed that enantiomeric BTL
4-hydroxylation was monophasic in liver microsomes from marmosets of both genders
and from male Japanese monkeys. These results suggest that cytochrome P450-2D and
-1A enzymes with similar Km values are involved in BTL 4-hydroxylation in monkey 
liver microsomes.

DOI: 10.1248/bpb.19.1429 
PMID: 8951158  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

