

3752. Behav Neurosci. 1996 Oct;110(5):872-86.

Primate analogue of the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test: effects of excitotoxic
lesions of the prefrontal cortex in the marmoset.

Dias R(1), Robbins TW, Roberts AC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, University of Cambridge, United
Kingdom.

Using a primate analogue of the Wisconsin Card Sort Test, this study
demonstrated, for the first time, that lesions of the prefrontal cortex in
monkeys produce a qualitatively similar impairment in attentional set-shifting to
that seen following prefrontal cortical damage in humans. Although damage to the 
prefrontal cortex did not disrupt the ability of marmosets, a New World monkey,
to maintain an attentional set, it did disrupt their ability to shift an
attentional set. It also impaired their performance on discrimination reversal,
object retrieval, and spatial delayed response, consistent with the effects of
prefrontal damage in Old World monkeys. Comparison of the cognitive processes
underlying discrimination reversal, object retrieval, and attentional
set-shifting reveals the various types of inhibitory control provided by the
prefrontal cortex.

DOI: 10.1037//0735-7044.110.5.872 
PMID: 8918991  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3753. Psychopharmacology (Berl). 1996 Oct;127(3):245-54.

The 5-HT1A antagonist, WAY 100635, ameliorates the cognitive impairment induced
by fornix transection in the marmoset.

Harder JA(1), Maclean CJ, Alder JT, Francis PT, Ridley RM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, University of Cambridge, UK.

Fornix transection in the marmoset produces a specific pattern of cognitive
deficits, notably a lack of ability to recall visuospatial tasks learnt
preoperatively, and a deficit in acquiring new visuospatial tasks following
transection. Previous work has shown that this learning impairment can be
ameliorated by cholinergic agonists, suggesting that it occurs as a consequence
of destroying the cholinergic projection from the vertical limb of the diagonal
band to the hippocampus which runs through the fornix. We have now shown that
this deficit in new learning can be significantly alleviated by the 5-HT1A
antagonist, WAY 100635. This result supports the suggestion that 5-HT1A
projections are inhibitory on the same target cells for which cholinergic
projections are excitatory, and that loss of function in the target cells caused 
by loss of excitatory tone can be compensated by blockade of inhibitory tone.
Since cholinergic loss in the hippocampus (and neocortex) occurs in association
with cognitive decline in Alzheimer's disease, these results suggest that 5-HT1A 
antagonists may have a role in the treatment of some of the cognitive symptoms of
dementia.


PMID: 8912403  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

