

3754. Clin Exp Pharmacol Physiol. 1996 Oct-Nov;23(10-11):931-8.

Parallel organization of somatosensory cortical areas I and II for tactile
processing.

Rowe MJ(1), Turman AB, Murray GM, Zhang HQ.

Author information: 
(1)School of Physiology and Pharmacology, University of New South Wales, Sydney, 
Australia.

1. The two principal tactile processing areas in the cerebral cortex,
somatosensory areas I and II, receive direct projections from the thalamus and,
as well, are linked through intracortical reciprocal connections. Tactile
information may therefore be conveyed to SII, for example, over either a direct
path from the thalamus or an indirect, or serial, path from the thalamus via SI. 
2. Reports in recent years that tactile responsiveness within the hand area of
SII was abolished by surgical ablation of the hand area of the postcentral, or SI
area of the cortex in the macaque and marmoset monkeys indicated that a serial
processing scheme may operate at least in primates. However, as the surgical
ablation is clearly irreversible and precludes examination of individual SII
neurons in both the control and test circumstances, that is, when SI is intact
and when it is inactivated, we have examined in the cat, the rabbit and the
marmoset monkey the behaviour of SII neurons before, during and after the
selective, rapidly-reversible inactivation of SI by means of localized cooling.
3. The results demonstrate that in the cat and rabbit, SII responsiveness is
never abolished and infrequently affected by SI inactivation and that tactile
inputs to SII therefore traverse a direct path from thalamus, organized in
parallel with that to SI. In the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), in contrast to
earlier studies based on ablation of SI we found that with reversible
inactivation of SI, SII responsiveness was unaffected in 25% of neurons and,
although reduced in the remainder, was rarely abolished (< 10% of SII neurons).
4. The results indicate that there is substantial direct thalamic input to SII,
even in this simian primate, and therefore necessitate revision of the hypothesis
that tactile processing at the thalamocortical level in simian primates is based 
on a strict serial scheme in which tactile information is conveyed from the
thalamus to SI and thence to SII.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1440-1681.1996.tb01145.x 
PMID: 8911737  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3755. Am J Pathol. 1996 Oct;149(4):1369-79.

Biochemical and morphological characterization of vascular and lymphocytic
interleukin-4 receptors.

Schnyder B(1), Lugli SM, Schnyder-Candrian S, Eng VM, Moser R, Banchereau J,
Ryffel B, Car BD.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Toxicology, Swiss Federal Institute of Technology-ETH,
Schwerzenbach, Switzerland.

The distribution of the interleukin (IL)-4 receptor in normal human and common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) tissues was examined by immunofluorescence and flow
cytometry using monoclonal antibodies specific for the human IL-4 receptor to
gain further insight into IL-4-mediated inflammatory and immunological events.
IL-4 receptor positivity was unequivocally demonstrated on lymphocytes,
predominantly T cells, and on blood vessels in many tissues. Vascular IL-4
receptor immunofluorescence consisted of a strong smooth muscle cell positivity
and weaker positive staining of capillary and venular endothelial cells.
Subnanomolar concentrations of IL-4 induced a genistein-sensitive up-regulation
of VCAM-1 in vascular cell cultures. Tumor necrosis factor-alpha induced a
genistein-resistant up-regulation of VCAM-1. IL-4 strongly induced expression of 
the IL-4 receptor on splenocytes (T lymphocytes) but not on vascular smooth
muscle or endothelial cell cultures. Receptor cross-linking to [125I]IL-4
revealed a 65- to 75-kDa accessory receptor subunit consistent with a recently
cloned IL-13 receptor associated with the IL-4 receptor on both vascular
endothelial and smooth muscle cells. The demonstration of a vascular distribution
pattern for the IL-4 receptor in addition to expression on lymphocytes suggests
that vascular functional alterations, transduced through a unique IL-4 receptor
complex (the type II IL-4 receptor), may be of importance during immunological
and allergic inflammatory events.


PMCID: PMC1865187
PMID: 8863684  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

