

3759. Neurodegeneration. 1996 Sep;5(3):275-86.

Assessment of functional impairment following permanent middle cerebral artery
occlusion in a non-human primate species.

Marshall JW(1), Ridley RM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, University of Cambridge.
jwbm2@cam.ac.uk

The purpose of the present study was to examine and quantify the functional
consequence of a focal cerebral ischaemic lesion in a primate species, the
marmoset. Following craniotomy and retraction of the frontal and temporal lobes, 
the middle cerebral artery was permanently occluded by means of
electrocoagulation. Three and eight weeks after surgery, various behavioural
tests were used to give a quantifiable measure to the neurological deficits
produced. These tests required the monkeys to reach into tubes for foodbits,
retrieve rewards from the steps of two designs of 'staircases', respond to one of
two simultaneously presented rewarded tubes, remove adhesive labels attached to
their feet, and respond to sensory stimuli. Unilateral motor impairment of the
contralateral forelimb and neglect of contralateral tactile stimuli were seen in 
all subjects, and spatial neglect was also present in some monkeys. Subsequent
histological analysis revealed unilateral cortical damage in all subjects with
varying amounts of injury to the caudate and the putamen in some animals. These
results demonstrate the potential for the use of this species in future
investigations to examine the effect of neuroprotective treatment on functional
outcome after a focal ischaemic insult.

DOI: 10.1006/neur.1996.0036 
PMID: 8910906  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3760. Psychopharmacology (Berl). 1996 Sep;127(1):1-9.

The antiepileptic agent gabapentin (Neurontin) possesses anxiolytic-like and
antinociceptive actions that are reversed by D-serine.

Singh L(1), Field MJ, Ferris P, Hunter JC, Oles RJ, Williams RG, Woodruff GN.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Parke-Davis Neuroscience Research Center, Cambridge,
UK.

This report describes the activity of the antiepileptic agent gabapentin
(Neurontin) in animal models predictive of anxiolysis and analgesia. Gabapentin
displayed anxiolytic-like action in the rat conflict test, the mouse light/dark
box and the rat elevated X-maze with respective minimum effective doses (MEDs) of
3, 10 and 30 mg/kg. Furthermore, gabapentin also induced behavioural changes
suggestive of anxiolysis in the marmoset human threat test with a MED of 30
mg/kg. In the rat formalin test of tonic nociception, gabapentin dose-dependently
(30-300 mg/kg) and selectively blocked the late phase with a MED of 100 mg/kg.
However, it failed to block carrageenan-induced paw oedema. The
intracerebroventricular (ICV) administration of the glycine/NMDA receptor agonist
D-Serine, dose-dependently (10-100 micrograms/animal) reversed the
antinociceptive action of gabapentin (200 mg/kg, SC). D-Serine (30
micrograms/animal, ICV) also reversed the anxiolytic-like effects (in the
light/dark box and the rat elevated X-maze) of gabapentin (30 mg/kg). In
contrast, L-Serine (100 micrograms, ICV) failed to block the antinociceptive
action of gabapentin. The antinociceptive action of (+)-HA-966 (25 mg/kg, SC), a 
partial agonist at the glycine/NMDA receptor, was reversed by D-Serine (100
micrograms/animal, ICV). However, D-Serine (100 micrograms/animal, ICV) failed to
affect the antinociceptive action of a competitive NMDA receptor antagonist CGS
19755 (3 mg/kg, SC). Gabapentin has negligible affinity for the strychnine
insensitive [3H]glycine binding site. This indicates that the interaction between
gabapentin and D-Serine may not involve the NMDA receptor complex. Gabapentin may
represent a novel type of anxiolytic and analgesic agent.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02805968 
PMID: 8880937  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

