

3774. Mem Inst Oswaldo Cruz. 1996 Jul-Aug;91(4):501-5.

The haemoculture of Trypanosoma minasense Chagas, 1908.

Ziccardi M(1), Lourenço-de-Oliveira R, Nogueira R.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Entomologia, Instituto Oswaldo Cruz, Rio de Janeiro, Brasil.

Trypanosoma minasense was isolated for the first time in blood axenic culture
from a naturally infected marmoset, Callithrix penicillata, from Brazil. The
parasite grew profusely in an overlay of Roswell Park Memorial Institute medium
plus 20% foetal bovine serum, on Novy, McNeal and Nicolle medium (NNN), at 27
degrees C, with a peak around 168 hr. The morphometry of cultural forms of T.
minasense, estimates of cell population size and comparative growth in four
different media overlays always with NNN, were studied. The infectivity of
cultural forms to marmosets (C. penicillata and C. jacchus) and transformation of
epimastigotes into metacyclic-like forms in axenic culture in the presence of
chitin derivates (chitosan) were evaluated.

DOI: 10.1590/s0074-02761996000400019 
PMID: 9070411  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3775. Lab Anim. 1996 Jul;30(3):260-6.

Collection of semen from marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) for experimental
use by vaginal washing.

Kuederling I(1), Morrell JM, Nayudu PL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Reproductive Biology, German Primate Center, Göttingen, Germany.

Assisted reproductive techniques make an important contribution to the
conservation of endangered primate species. In our laboratories marmoset monkeys 
(Callithrix jacchus) are used as a model species for developing assisted
reproductive technologies for New World primates. The studies require a reliable 
method for collecting functional sperm from these small animals. For this purpose
a minimally invasive procedure, vaginal washing after natural mating, was
evaluated for its suitability as a routine method of obtaining ejaculated sperm
of high quality. The objective of the first series of tests was to identify a
behavioural pattern which was easily discernible by the observer and provided a
reliable indication that ejaculation had occurred. In a second series of tests
the influence of length of separation of the male prior to copulation on the
quality of the ejaculate was evaluated. Six adult ovariectomized and five adult
intact females were used for vaginal washing, while their mates served as donors 
of ejaculates. Matings at specific times were achieved by separating the males
from their females for a certain time period and subsequently introducing either 
their own mates or unfamiliar males to the females. After each observed mating
vaginal washing was performed on the unsedated females. The seminal samples
obtained were analysed for sperm concentration, the proportion of motile sperm
and the proportion of live sperm. The results have shown (a) that ejaculation was
indicated with a reliability of 86.1% by the behaviour of the female, who
terminates a copulation by moving away from her partner; (b) that separation of
the male for up to six days had no negative effect on the sperm quality; (c) that
the sperm samples were of high quality. Vaginal washing after natural matings
appears to be a practical, reliable and gentle method for routinely collecting
ejaculates from marmoset monkeys and possibly other New World primates.

DOI: 10.1258/002367796780684845 
PMID: 8843051  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

