

3777. J Biol Chem. 1996 Jun 21;271(25):14684-91.

Fetal globin expression in New World monkeys.

Johnson RM(1), Buck S, Chiu C, Schneider H, Sampaio I, Gage DA, Shen TL,
Schneider MP, Muniz JA, Gumucio DL, Goodman M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Wayne State Medical School, Detroit, Michigan
48201, USA.

Erratum in
    J Biol Chem. 1996 Nov 22;271(47):30298.

Reverse phase chromatography of the globin chains of adult, newborn, and fetal
erythrocytes from three species of New World monkeys (Cebus apella, Aotus azarae,
and Callithrix jacchus) representing three of the seven platyrrhine clades showed
that gamma-globin expression was fetal in these animals. The globins were
identified by a combination of chemical sequencing and mass spectrometric
analysis. Since gamma-globin expression is fetal in the other major simian
branch, the catarrhines, but embryonic in prosimian primates and nonprimate
placental mammals, the evolution of fetal recruitment can now be assigned to the 
period between the simian-prosimian divergence (55 million years ago) and the
platyrrhine-catarrhine divergence (35 million years ago). The gamma-globin gene
underwent tandem duplication during the same evolutionary epoch, in accord with a
model that suggests that the downstream duplicated gamma-gene (gamma2) was free
to acquire the mutations necessary for fetal recruitment. Mass spectrometric
analysis of tryptic digests of the gamma-globins verified the amino acid
sequences deduced from genomic sequencing. Detailed analysis of high performance 
liquid chromatography and matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization mass
spectrometry data showed that gamma2-globin in Cebus was expressed to a far
greater extent than gamma1-globin, supporting inferences drawn from a study of
the promoter sequences. A "pre-gamma"-globin was observed in C. apella and shown 
to be primarily the glutathionyl adduct. The other species, A. azarae and C.
jacchus, also express only one gamma-globin polypeptide. This work provides
biochemical evidence of an evolutionary trend in the platyrrhines to alter the
duplicated gamma-globin gene locus so that only one gamma-globin polypeptide is
expressed.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.271.25.14684 
PMID: 8663037  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3778. Exp Cell Res. 1996 Jun 15;225(2):257-67.

Functional reconstitution of oxidase activity in X-linked chronic granulomatous
disease by retrovirus-mediated gene transfer.

Zentilin L(1), Tafuro S, Grassi G, Garcia R, Ventura A, Baralle F, Falaschi A,
Giacca M.

Author information: 
(1)International Centre for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology, Trieste,
Italy.

The feasibility of correction of the disease phenotype by gene gene transfer was 
investigated in cells of four patients with X-linked chronic granulomatous
disease. These patients carry point mutations of the gp91-phox gene, encoding for
the large subunit of the catalytic core of the phagocytic cell NADPH oxidase. A
retroviral vector expressing the gp91-phox protein was constructed and used to
transduce lymphoblastoid cell lines established from the patients. Several
transduced lymphoblastoid cell clones were investigated for mRNA and protein
expression, and for functional reconstitution of oxidase activity. Although
extensive quantitative variability was detected among different clones,
functional reconstitution of O2- production was obtained in most cases, with
oxidase function within the same range as in B cell lines derived from normal
individuals. The same vector was also used for transduction of hematopoietic
precursors from bone marrow or peripheral blood either with or without enrichment
for CD34+ cells. A comprehensive analysis was performed on differentiated myeloid
colonies, to evaluate the efficiency of transduction, the levels of gp91-phox
expression, and the extent of functional reconstitution of oxidase activity. A
high efficiency of transduction was obtained in most experiments, with 60-100% of
colonies containing proviral DNA. Among the transduced colonies, an extensive
variability in the levels of expression of the transduced gene and of functional 
restoration of NADPH oxidase activity was observed. These results represent a
step toward the development of a gene therapy protocol for these patients.

DOI: 10.1006/excr.1996.0175 
PMID: 8660913  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

