

3779. Biochem Pharmacol. 1996 Jun 14;51(11):1489-501.

Inhibition of squalene synthase in vitro by 3-(biphenyl-4-yl)-quinuclidine.

Ward WH(1), Holdgate GA, Freeman S, McTaggart F, Girdwood PA, Davidson RG,
Mallion KB, Brown GR, Eakin MA.

Author information: 
(1)ZENECA Pharmaceuticals, Macclesfield, Cheshire, U.K.

Squalene synthase (SQS) catalyses a step following the final branch in the
pathway of cholesterol biosynthesis. Inhibition of this enzyme, therefore, is an 
approach for the treatment of atherosclerosis with the potential for low side
effects. We have characterised the inhibition of rat liver microsomal SQS by
3-(biphenyl-4-yl)quinuclidine (BPQ). BPQ follows slow binding kinetics in that
the rate of accumulation of product decreases with time if the inhibitor is added
when the assay is started. Preincubation of BPQ and SQS leads to a biphasic
dose-response where accumulation of product is linear with time only for the
sensitive phase. When the farnesyl pyrophosphate (FPP) substrate is present at
19.6 microM, approximately 77% of the SQS activity is sensitive to the inhibitor 
(vOs) and the remainder is insensitive (vOi). The apparent inhibition constants
(K'i values) are respectively K'is = 4.5 nM and K'ii = 1300 nM. Similar biphasic 
behaviour is exhibited by other inhibitors and in microsomes prepared from human 
and marmoset liver. As the concentration of FPP is reduced below 19.6 microM,
there is a decrease in the relative contribution from vOi. Conversely, the value 
of K'is for BPQ remains constant when the FPP concentration is changed, showing
noncompetitive kinetics with respect to this substrate. Possible causes of the
observed kinetics are discussed. Inhibition by BPQ is said to follow tight
binding kinetics because the value of K'is is similar to the concentration of
inhibitor binding sites. Thus, to avoid an artefactual variation in potency when 
the enzyme concentration is varied, it is necessary to allow for the effects of
depletion of free inhibitor. Furthermore, estimates of potency that average
activity across the two phases are influenced by the relative contributions of
each phase. These contributions differ according to the FPP concentration and the
species used as the source of microsomes. Thus, it is necessary to separate the
phases to compare measurements made in different experiments. Our observations
indicate that careful experimental design and data analysis are required to
characterise the kinetics of SQS inhibitors.

DOI: 10.1016/0006-2952(96)00090-1 
PMID: 8630090  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3780. Nature. 1996 Jun 13;381(6583):610-3.

Primary cortical representation of sounds by the coordination of action-potential
timing.

deCharms RC(1), Merzenich MM.

Author information: 
(1)Keck Center for Integrative Neuroscience, University of California, San
Francisco 94143, USA.

Cortical population coding could in principle rely on either the mean rate of
neuronal action potentials, or the relative timing of action potentials, or both.
When a single sensory stimulus drives many neurons to fire at elevated rates, the
spikes of these neurons become tightly synchronized, which could be involved in
'binding' together individual firing-rate feature representations into a unified 
object percept. Here we demonstrate that the relative timing of cortical action
potentials can signal stimulus features themselves, a function even more basic
than feature grouping. Populations of neurons in the primary auditory cortex can 
coordinate the relative timing of their action potentials such that spikes occur 
closer together in time during continuous stimuli. In this way cortical neurons
can signal stimuli even when their firing rates do not change. Population coding 
based on relative spike timing can systemically signal stimulus features, it is
topographically mapped, and it follows the stimulus time course even where mean
firing rate does not.

DOI: 10.1038/381610a0 
PMID: 8637597  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

