

378. Zoo Biol. 2020 Mar;39(2):73-82. doi: 10.1002/zoo.21531. Epub 2020 Jan 15.

Gum feeder as environmental enrichment for zoo marmosets and tamarins.

Regaiolli B(1), Angelosante C(2), Marliani G(2), Accorsi PA(2), Vaglio
S(1)(3)(4), Spiezio C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Research and Conservation, Parco Natura Viva - Garda Zoological 
Park, Bussolengo, Italy.
(2)Dipartimento di Scienze Mediche Veterinarie, Università di Bologna, Bologna,
Italy.
(3)Department of Biology, Chemistry and Forensic Science, University of
Wolverhampton, Wolverhampton, UK.
(4)Department of Anthropology and Behaviour, Ecology and Evolution Research
(BEER) Centre, Durham University, Durham, UK.

Tamarins and marmosets are small-bodied social callitrichines. Wild
callitrichines feed on exudates, such as sap and gum; particularly, marmosets are
mainly gummivores, while tamarins consume gums only occasionally and
opportunistically. Zoo marmosets and tamarins are usually provided with gum
arabic as an alternative to the exudates normally found in the wild. The aim of
this study was to evaluate the effects of a gum feeder on the behavior and
well-being of four zoo-managed callitrichines. We studied four cotton-top
tamarins (Saguinus oedipus), four red-handed tamarins (S. midas), two pygmy
marmosets (Cebuella pygmaea), and three Geoffroy's marmosets (Callithrix
geoffroyi) housed at Parco Natura Viva (Italy). We conducted the study over two
different periods, a baseline (control, without the gum feeder) and then a gum
feeder (when the gum feeder was provided) period. We used continuous focal animal
sampling to collect behavioral data, including durations of social and individual
behaviors. We collected 240 min of observations per period per study subject,
with a total of 3,120 min for all the subjects in the same period and of
6,240 min in both periods. We analyzed data by using nonparametric statistical
tests. First, we found that the gum feeder promoted species-specific behaviors,
such as exploration, and diminished self-directed behaviors, suggesting an
enriching effect on tamarin and marmoset behavior. Moreover, in red-handed
tamarins, the provision of the gum feeder reduced the performance of
self-directed and abnormal behavior, specifically coprophagy. These results
confirm that gum feeders are effective foraging enrichment tools for zoo
marmosets and tamarins.

© 2020 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/zoo.21531 
PMID: 31944345  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


379. Nat Neurosci. 2020 Feb;23(2):271-280. doi: 10.1038/s41593-019-0575-0. Epub 2020
Jan 13.

A resource for the detailed 3D mapping of white matter pathways in the marmoset
brain.

Liu C(1)(2), Ye FQ(3), Newman JD(4)(5), Szczupak D(4)(6), Tian X(4)(6), Yen
CC(4), Majka P(7)(8), Glen D(9), Rosa MGP(8)(10), Leopold DA(3)(11), Silva
AC(12)(13).

Author information: 
(1)Cerebral Microcirculation Section, Laboratory of Functional and Molecular
Imaging, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, USA. cirongliu@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Neurobiology, University of Pittsburgh Brain Institute,
Pittsburgh, PA, USA. cirongliu@gmail.com.
(3)Neurophysiology Imaging Facility, National Institute of Mental Health,
National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, and National Eye
Institute, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, USA.
(4)Cerebral Microcirculation Section, Laboratory of Functional and Molecular
Imaging, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, USA.
(5)Section on Quantitative Imaging and Tissue Sciences, National Institute of
Child Health and Human Development, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, 
USA.
(6)Department of Neurobiology, University of Pittsburgh Brain Institute,
Pittsburgh, PA, USA.
(7)Laboratory of Neuroinformatics, Nencki Institute of Experimental Biology of
Polish Academy of Sciences, Warsaw, Poland.
(8)ARC Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain Function, Clayton, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia.
(9)Scientific and Statistical Computing Core, National Institute of Mental
Health, National Institutes of Health (NIMH/NIH), Bethesda, MD, USA.
(10)Neuroscience Program, Monash Biomedicine Discovery Institute, Clayton,
Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
(11)Section on Cognitive Neurophysiology and Imaging, Laboratory of
Neuropsychology, National Institute of Mental Health, National Institutes of
Health, Bethesda, MD, USA.
(12)Cerebral Microcirculation Section, Laboratory of Functional and Molecular
Imaging, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, USA. afonso@pitt.edu.
(13)Department of Neurobiology, University of Pittsburgh Brain Institute,
Pittsburgh, PA, USA. afonso@pitt.edu.

While the fundamental importance of the white matter in supporting neuronal
communication is well known, existing publications of primate brains do not
feature a detailed description of its complex anatomy. The main barrier to
achieving this is that existing primate neuroimaging data have insufficient
spatial resolution to resolve white matter pathways fully. Here we present a
resource that allows detailed descriptions of white matter structures and
trajectories of fiber pathways in the marmoset brain. The resource includes: (1) 
the highest-resolution diffusion-weighted MRI data available to date, which
reveal white matter features not previously described; (2) a comprehensive
three-dimensional white matter atlas depicting fiber pathways that were either
omitted or misidentified in previous atlases; and (3) comprehensive fiber pathway
maps of cortical connections combining diffusion-weighted MRI tractography and
neuronal tracing data. The resource, which can be downloaded from
marmosetbrainmapping.org, will facilitate studies of brain connectivity and the
development of tractography algorithms in the primate brain.

DOI: 10.1038/s41593-019-0575-0 
PMCID: PMC7007400
PMID: 31932765  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

