

3781. Acta Ophthalmol Scand. 1996 Jun;74(3):213-9.

Animal models of myopia. A review.

Edwards MH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Hong Kong Polytechnic University, Hong Kong.

The discovery that myopia can be induced in animals has resulted in renewed
interest in the condition and it is hoped that information gained about the
production, manipulation and prevention of myopia in animals might provide
information about naturally occurring myopia in humans. Early experimental work
was carried out using monkeys as subjects, but the high cost involved, and the
difficulty of obtaining monkeys in adequate numbers for good experimental design 
and control, made researchers look for more suitable experimental animals. Myopia
has also been induced in other animals species such as the domestic cat, the tree
shrew, the marmoset, the guinea pig and, most successfully, the domestic chicken.
The parallels between experimentally induced myopia, which can only be induced in
infant animals, and human myopia which typically develops well after infancy,
have still to be established.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0420.1996.tb00078.x 
PMID: 8828713  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3782. Lab Anim Sci. 1996 Jun;46(3):275-9.

Hemorrhagic typhlocolitis associated with attaching and effacing Escherichia coli
in common marmosets.

Thomson JA(1), Scheffler JJ.

Author information: 
(1)Wisconsin Regional Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin, Madison
53715-1299, USA.

We describe the necropsy results from three common marmosets presented during an 
outbreak of hemorrhagic diarrhea in a colony of 230 common marmosets (Callithrix 
jacchus). Necropsy revealed consistent hemorrhagic typhlocolitis and variable
ileitis associated with gram-negative bacilli closely adherent to enterocytes.
Electron microscopy revealed bacilli attached intimately to shallow cup-like
projections of enterocyte apical membranes with loss of microvilli (attaching and
effacing). Escherichia coli isolates from affected marmosets were serogroup O26
and were positive for the E. coli attaching and effacing locus and negative for
shiga-like toxin I and II, heat-stable enterotoxins a and b, and heat-labile
enterotoxin by DNA probe hybridization. Results of a Vero cell cytotoxicity assay
confirmed that the E. coli isolates did not produce shiga-like toxin. The
increased availability of diagnostic probes for specific virulence factors such
as attaching and effacing E. coli should lead to a greater understanding of the
frequency of E. coli as a cause of diarrhea in nonhuman primates.


PMID: 8799932  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

