

3782. Lab Anim Sci. 1996 Jun;46(3):275-9.

Hemorrhagic typhlocolitis associated with attaching and effacing Escherichia coli
in common marmosets.

Thomson JA(1), Scheffler JJ.

Author information: 
(1)Wisconsin Regional Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin, Madison
53715-1299, USA.

We describe the necropsy results from three common marmosets presented during an 
outbreak of hemorrhagic diarrhea in a colony of 230 common marmosets (Callithrix 
jacchus). Necropsy revealed consistent hemorrhagic typhlocolitis and variable
ileitis associated with gram-negative bacilli closely adherent to enterocytes.
Electron microscopy revealed bacilli attached intimately to shallow cup-like
projections of enterocyte apical membranes with loss of microvilli (attaching and
effacing). Escherichia coli isolates from affected marmosets were serogroup O26
and were positive for the E. coli attaching and effacing locus and negative for
shiga-like toxin I and II, heat-stable enterotoxins a and b, and heat-labile
enterotoxin by DNA probe hybridization. Results of a Vero cell cytotoxicity assay
confirmed that the E. coli isolates did not produce shiga-like toxin. The
increased availability of diagnostic probes for specific virulence factors such
as attaching and effacing E. coli should lead to a greater understanding of the
frequency of E. coli as a cause of diarrhea in nonhuman primates.


PMID: 8799932  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3783. Lab Anim Sci. 1996 Jun;46(3):266-70.

Gongylonematiasis in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Brack M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Deutsches Primatenzentrum GmbH, Abteilung Pathologie und Tierärztiche
Versorgung, Göttingen, Germany.

Two cases of gongylonematiasis in common marmosets of two research facilities in 
Germany are reported. The helminthiasis was transmitted from colony A to colony B
by one infected female and within colony B by cockroaches (Blatella germanica).
Four of 40 cockroaches examined in colony B were infected with rhabditiform
larvae. Clinical signs of disease in the infected animals consisted of intense
itching and scratching of the edematous and slightly hyperemic perioral tissues. 
Histologically the adult helminths lodged predominantly in the mucous membranes
of the upper and lower lips; they were less frequently present in the labial
cutaneous parts or in the tongue and could not be seen in the esophageal wall,
bronchi, or abdominal organs. The helminthic infection probably caused minor to
moderate mixed inflammatory infiltrates of the periesophageal connective tissues 
and intense inflammation of the deep lingual muscular tissues. Lesions of the
mucosal membranes of the lips and tongue had predominant accumulations of
neutrophilic granulocytes, lymphocytes, and mostly degranulated mast cells with
only a few eosinophilic granulocytes. In the cutaneous part of the lips
multifocal microabscesses were considered to be secondary lesions from the
intense scratching.


PMID: 8799930  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

