

3783. Lab Anim Sci. 1996 Jun;46(3):266-70.

Gongylonematiasis in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Brack M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Deutsches Primatenzentrum GmbH, Abteilung Pathologie und Tierärztiche
Versorgung, Göttingen, Germany.

Two cases of gongylonematiasis in common marmosets of two research facilities in 
Germany are reported. The helminthiasis was transmitted from colony A to colony B
by one infected female and within colony B by cockroaches (Blatella germanica).
Four of 40 cockroaches examined in colony B were infected with rhabditiform
larvae. Clinical signs of disease in the infected animals consisted of intense
itching and scratching of the edematous and slightly hyperemic perioral tissues. 
Histologically the adult helminths lodged predominantly in the mucous membranes
of the upper and lower lips; they were less frequently present in the labial
cutaneous parts or in the tongue and could not be seen in the esophageal wall,
bronchi, or abdominal organs. The helminthic infection probably caused minor to
moderate mixed inflammatory infiltrates of the periesophageal connective tissues 
and intense inflammation of the deep lingual muscular tissues. Lesions of the
mucosal membranes of the lips and tongue had predominant accumulations of
neutrophilic granulocytes, lymphocytes, and mostly degranulated mast cells with
only a few eosinophilic granulocytes. In the cutaneous part of the lips
multifocal microabscesses were considered to be secondary lesions from the
intense scratching.


PMID: 8799930  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3784. Am J Phys Anthropol. 1996 Jun;100(2):153-79.

Molecular phylogeny of the New World monkeys (Platyrrhini, primates) based on two
unlinked nuclear genes: IRBP intron 1 and epsilon-globin sequences.

Schneider H(1), Sampaio I, Harada ML, Barroso CM, Schneider MP, Czelusniak J,
Goodman M.

Author information: 
(1)Universidade Federal do Para, Departamento de Genetica, Belem, Brazil.

Nuclear sequences of the 1.8 kilobase (kb) long intron 1 of the interstitial
retinol-binding protein gene (IRBP), previously determined for 11 of the 16
extant genera of New World monkeys (superfamily Ceboidea, infraorder
Platyrrhini), have now been determined for the remaining 5 genera. The maximum
parsimony trees found, first with IRBP sequences alone and then with tandemly
combined IRBP and epsilon-globin gene sequences from the same species, supported 
a provisional cladistic classification with the following clusters. Subtribes
Callitrichina (Callithrix, Cebuella), Callimiconina (Callimico), Leontopithecina 
(Leontopithecus) and Saguina (Saguinus) constitute subfamily Callitrichinae, and 
subfamilies Callitrichinae, Aotinae (Aotus), and Cebinae (Cebus, Saimiri)
constitute family Cebidae. Subtribes Chiropotina (Chiropotes, Cacajao) and
Pitheciina (Pithecia) constitute tribe Pitheciini; and tribes Pitheciini and
Callicebini (Callicebus) constitute subfamily Pitheciinae. Subtribes Brachytelina
(Brachyteles, Lagothrix) and Atelina (Ateles) constitute tribe Atelini, and
tribes Atelini and Alouattini (Alouatta) constitute subfamily Atelinae. The
parsimony results were equivocal as to whether Pitheciinae should be grouped with
Atelinae in family Atelidae or have its own family Pitheciidae. The cladistic
groupings of extant ceboids were also examined by different stochastic
evolutionary models that employed the same stochastic process of nucleotide
substitutions but alternative putative phylogenetic trees on which the nucleotide
substitutions occurred. Each model, i.e., each different tree, predicted a
different multinomial distribution of nucleotide character patterns for the
contemporary sequences. The predicted distributions that were closest to the
actual observed distributions identified the best fitting trees. The cladistic
relationships depicted in these best fitting trees agreed in almost all cases
with those depicted in the maximum parsimony trees.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1096-8644(199606)100:2<153::AID-AJPA1>3.0.CO;2-Z 
PMID: 8771309  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

