

3784. Am J Phys Anthropol. 1996 Jun;100(2):153-79.

Molecular phylogeny of the New World monkeys (Platyrrhini, primates) based on two
unlinked nuclear genes: IRBP intron 1 and epsilon-globin sequences.

Schneider H(1), Sampaio I, Harada ML, Barroso CM, Schneider MP, Czelusniak J,
Goodman M.

Author information: 
(1)Universidade Federal do Para, Departamento de Genetica, Belem, Brazil.

Nuclear sequences of the 1.8 kilobase (kb) long intron 1 of the interstitial
retinol-binding protein gene (IRBP), previously determined for 11 of the 16
extant genera of New World monkeys (superfamily Ceboidea, infraorder
Platyrrhini), have now been determined for the remaining 5 genera. The maximum
parsimony trees found, first with IRBP sequences alone and then with tandemly
combined IRBP and epsilon-globin gene sequences from the same species, supported 
a provisional cladistic classification with the following clusters. Subtribes
Callitrichina (Callithrix, Cebuella), Callimiconina (Callimico), Leontopithecina 
(Leontopithecus) and Saguina (Saguinus) constitute subfamily Callitrichinae, and 
subfamilies Callitrichinae, Aotinae (Aotus), and Cebinae (Cebus, Saimiri)
constitute family Cebidae. Subtribes Chiropotina (Chiropotes, Cacajao) and
Pitheciina (Pithecia) constitute tribe Pitheciini; and tribes Pitheciini and
Callicebini (Callicebus) constitute subfamily Pitheciinae. Subtribes Brachytelina
(Brachyteles, Lagothrix) and Atelina (Ateles) constitute tribe Atelini, and
tribes Atelini and Alouattini (Alouatta) constitute subfamily Atelinae. The
parsimony results were equivocal as to whether Pitheciinae should be grouped with
Atelinae in family Atelidae or have its own family Pitheciidae. The cladistic
groupings of extant ceboids were also examined by different stochastic
evolutionary models that employed the same stochastic process of nucleotide
substitutions but alternative putative phylogenetic trees on which the nucleotide
substitutions occurred. Each model, i.e., each different tree, predicted a
different multinomial distribution of nucleotide character patterns for the
contemporary sequences. The predicted distributions that were closest to the
actual observed distributions identified the best fitting trees. The cladistic
relationships depicted in these best fitting trees agreed in almost all cases
with those depicted in the maximum parsimony trees.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1096-8644(199606)100:2<153::AID-AJPA1>3.0.CO;2-Z 
PMID: 8771309  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3785. Pediatr Res. 1996 Jun;39(6):999-1005.

Effects of early parenting on growth and development in a small primate.

Johnson EO(1), Kamilaris TC, Calogero AE, Gold PW, Chrousos GP.

Author information: 
(1)Developmental Endocrinology Branch, National Institute of Child Health and
Human Development, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.

We report here a study of the impact of caregiver-infant relationships on
physical growth and behavioral development in a small primate, the common
marmoset. Somatic growth was assessed from measurements of body weight, knee-heel
length, head-tail length, head circumference, and pudendal pad width in females
or testis volume in males obtained from unanesthetized monkeys. Behavioral
information was gathered by focal animal samples for discrete rearing behaviors. 
Our data suggest that the frequency of positive parental behaviors during infancy
is correlated with stature when the monkeys reach 10 and 20 wk of age.
Furthermore, we found that juveniles that were mistreated by their parents during
infancy were smaller in body weight, knee-heel length, and head-tail length, and 
they demonstrated abnormal social behavior. Finally, to address whether the
apparent decreased growth observed in the young animals that had experienced
negative parenting was also associated with alterations in
hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis function, we examined the plasma ACTH
and cortisol responses to synthetic ovine corticotropin-releasing hormone (oCRH) 
in these animals. We found that the incremental cortisol response to exogenous
oCRH was significantly lower in the young adults that had experienced negative
parenting during infancy compared with those who had nonabusive parents,
indicating altered hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis function in these animals.
Our findings suggest that the quality of parental care influences later growth
and behavior in the young marmoset.

DOI: 10.1203/00006450-199606000-00012 
PMID: 8725261  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

