

3785. Pediatr Res. 1996 Jun;39(6):999-1005.

Effects of early parenting on growth and development in a small primate.

Johnson EO(1), Kamilaris TC, Calogero AE, Gold PW, Chrousos GP.

Author information: 
(1)Developmental Endocrinology Branch, National Institute of Child Health and
Human Development, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.

We report here a study of the impact of caregiver-infant relationships on
physical growth and behavioral development in a small primate, the common
marmoset. Somatic growth was assessed from measurements of body weight, knee-heel
length, head-tail length, head circumference, and pudendal pad width in females
or testis volume in males obtained from unanesthetized monkeys. Behavioral
information was gathered by focal animal samples for discrete rearing behaviors. 
Our data suggest that the frequency of positive parental behaviors during infancy
is correlated with stature when the monkeys reach 10 and 20 wk of age.
Furthermore, we found that juveniles that were mistreated by their parents during
infancy were smaller in body weight, knee-heel length, and head-tail length, and 
they demonstrated abnormal social behavior. Finally, to address whether the
apparent decreased growth observed in the young animals that had experienced
negative parenting was also associated with alterations in
hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis function, we examined the plasma ACTH
and cortisol responses to synthetic ovine corticotropin-releasing hormone (oCRH) 
in these animals. We found that the incremental cortisol response to exogenous
oCRH was significantly lower in the young adults that had experienced negative
parenting during infancy compared with those who had nonabusive parents,
indicating altered hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis function in these animals.
Our findings suggest that the quality of parental care influences later growth
and behavior in the young marmoset.

DOI: 10.1203/00006450-199606000-00012 
PMID: 8725261  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3786. J Gen Virol. 1996 Jun;77 ( Pt 6):1173-80.

Persistent Epstein-Barr virus infection in the common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus).

Cox C(1), Chang S, Karran L, Griffin B, Wedderburn N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Royal College of Surgeons, London, UK.
ccox@rpms.ac.uk

Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) infection of the common marmoset causes long-term
infection, with production of antibodies to virus-induced antigens, without
clinical illness. Attempts to show the presence of EBV DNA in saliva of infected 
animals by PCR were initially unsuccessful, although slot-blot hybridization
analysis demonstrated that viral DNA was present. Further investigations showed
that most samples of pilocarpine-induced saliva, and 33% of the samples of whole 
mouth fluids (WMF) tested, were inhibitory to PCR. Similar results were found
using human WMF. A method of assessing samples of marmoset WMF for the presence
of EBV, by PCR using an EBV BamHI W probe, and removing inhibition with Chelex
100, is described. A total of 202 samples from 21 EBV infected, and seven
non-infected animals was tested. Five seropositive animals shed virus on every
occasion, and 15 intermittently. Two marmosets, infected as neonates, showed
progressively increasing humoral responses to viral antigens, and shed virus on
every occasion tested over 3 years. When mated with uninfected animals, the
latter seroconverted 4 and 6 weeks later, respectively, and later shed virus into
their WMF. The naturally infected animals were paired with naive marmosets, and
were able to pass on infection. These results establish that long-term,
permissive EBV infection occurs in the common marmoset, and demonstrate again the
similarities in the response to EBV between marmoset and man.

DOI: 10.1099/0022-1317-77-6-1173 
PMID: 8683204  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

