

3795. Lab Anim. 1996 Apr;30(2):162-70.

Monitoring and controlling reproduction in captive common marmosets on the basis 
of urinary oestrogen metabolites.

Nievergelt C(1), Pryce CR.

Author information: 
(1)Anthropology Institute, University of Zürich, Switzerland.

Non-invasive methods for routine monitoring of reproductive states and
reproduction control in large colonies of captive Callithrix jacchus have been
developed. Immunoactive urinary oestrone-3-conjugates (E1C) were measured during 
non-conception cycles (n = 5) and pregnancy (n = 7). Using plasma progesterone
levels to time ovulation, ovulation was quantitatively estimated by a)
calculating the first E1C rise and b) by establishing an E1C threshold. Ovulation
was thus defined as taking place 4 days preceding a) the first rise of E1C above 
follicular-phase levels, or b) a concentration > or = 4.5 micrograms E1C/mg
creatinine. Early pregnancy could be determined after day 20 by continued
luteal-phase levels of E1C. Secondly, the luteolytic effect of cloprostenol,
injected over a wide range of doses and between days 1 and 64 after
ovulation/conception, was analysed. Luteolysis was achieved when cloprostenol was
administered after day 5 post-ovulation; the luteolytic effect was found not to
be dose-dependent. The success of cloprostenol treatment was 87% as confirmed by 
endocrine monitoring. The methods described are effective and minimize
intervention, and are therefore suitable for long-term applications, particularly
in combination with behavioural studies.

DOI: 10.1258/002367796780865781 
PMID: 8783179  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3796. Int J Androl. 1996 Apr;19(2):113-21.

Maturation of sperm motility in the epididymis of the common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus) and the cynomolgus monkey (Macaca fascicularis).

Yeung CH(1), Morrell JM, Cooper TG, Weinbauer GF, Hodges JK, Nieschlag E.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Reproductive Medicine of the University, Münster, Germany.

The acquisition by spermatozoa of the capacity for movement upon liberation from 
the epididymal duct into buffer is one of the obvious changes associated with
sperm maturation and, hence, studies of sperm kinematics might provide good
indices for sperm maturation. Profiles of development in the movement pattern of 
spermatozoa taken from six regions of the epididymis were established in marmoset
and cynomolgus monkeys using computer-assisted sperm analysis. Motion of
spermatozoa from initial regions was sluggish and irregular, then developed in
the more distal region into erratic movement effected by an increase in the
vigour of flagellation as reflected by curvilinear velocity. The tendency of
immature spermatozoa to display circular motion was more common in the marmoset
than in the cynomolgus monkey. In the marmoset the most drastic changes in
percentage motility and kinematic parameters of spermatozoa occurred between the 
distal caput and the proximal corpus; maximal values for these parameters were
found around the distal corpus epididymis. For the cynomolgus spermatozoa the
sharpest gain in percentage motility was also achieved between the caput and
proximal corpus epididymis, but with full kinematic development in the proximal
cauda epididymis. These maturational changes were not synchronous among
spermatozoa from the same site as they moved along the epididymis, as reflected
in the heterogeneity of each sample in the kinematic properties of individual
spermatozoa, especially those from the proximal corpus epididymis. The
maturational profiles in the monkeys are comparable to the situation in the
human, for which they may provide a useful model.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2605.1996.tb00447.x 
PMID: 8737043  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

