

3802. Nature. 1996 Mar 7;380(6569):69-72.

Dissociation in prefrontal cortex of affective and attentional shifts.

Dias R(1), Robbins TW, Roberts AC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, University of Cambridge, UK.

The prefrontal cortex is implicated in such human characteristics as volition,
planning, abstract reasoning and affect. Frontal-lobe damage can cause
disinhibition such that the behaviour of a subject is guided by previously
acquired responses that are inappropriate to the current situation. Here we
demonstrate that disinhibition, or a loss of inhibitory control, can be selective
for particular cognitive functions and that different regions of the prefrontal
cortex provide inhibitory control in different aspects of cognitive processing.
Thus, whereas damage to the lateral prefrontal cortex (Brodmann's area 9) in
monkeys causes a loss of inhibitory control in attentional selection, damage to
the orbito-frontal cortex in monkeys causes a loss of inhibitory control in
'affective' processing, thereby impairing the ability to alter behaviour in
response to fluctuations in the emotional significance of stimuli. These findings
not only support the view that the prefrontal cortex has multiple functions, but 
also provide evidence for the distribution of different cognitive functions
within specific regions of prefrontal cortex.

DOI: 10.1038/380069a0 
PMID: 8598908  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3803. Am J Reprod Immunol. 1996 Mar;35(3):175-80.

The potential of the zona pellucida as a target for immunocontraception.

Aitken RJ(1), Paterson M, van Duin M.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Reproductive Biology Unit, Edinburgh, Scotland.

PROBLEM: To investigate the contraceptive potential of the zona pellucida.
METHOD: Generation of antibodies against native and recombinant zona
glycoproteins which have then been assessed for their capacity to disrupt
sperm-zona interaction in vivo and in vitro. The animal model selected for these 
studies was the common marmoset and the end points examined were antibody titre, 
ovarian cyclicity and fertility.
RESULTS: The fact that antibodies against the major zona glycoprotein, ZP3, block
both the primary and secondary phases of sperm-zona interaction suggests that
this molecule might have potential for contraceptive vaccine development. Active 
immunization of marmoset monkeys with native porcine ZP3 or recombinant human ZP3
produced long term infertility but also precipitated a premature decline in the
primordial follicle population.
CONCLUSIONS: Future studies will have to determine whether a safe, effective
vaccine can be engineered by coupling unique B-cell epitopes from ZP3 to foreign 
T-cell antigens.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0897.1996.tb00027.x 
PMID: 8962643  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

