

3808. J Androl. 1996 Mar-Apr;17(2):164-72.

Influence of semen collection method on ejaculate characteristics in the common
marmoset, Callithrix jacchus.

Morrell JM(1), Küderling I, Hodges JK.

Author information: 
(1)Deutsches Primatenzentrum, Göttingen, Germany.

A source of normal spermatozoa (sperm) is required for many andrological and
reproductive studies. Ideally the method used for semen collection should be
repeatable and reliable but should not influence sperm characteristics or sperm
function. Two methods of semen collection from marmosets, vaginal washing after
copulation and electroejaculation, were compared in terms of the success rate in 
obtaining samples and the characteristics of the sperm suspensions. Vaginal
washing was shown to be a reliable, repeatable, and apparently non-stressful
method of obtaining ejaculates, with 8 out of 10 males ejaculating on at least
four of the five attempts. The semen was of good quality as assessed by
conventional means, and the sperm were highly fertile when used for artificial
insemination (Al; 100% conception rate). In contrast, fewer ejaculates were
obtained from the same males by electroejaculation (success rate 30%), sperm
survival in vitro was reduced compared to sperm collected by vaginal washing
(0.93 +/- 0.15 days for electroejaculated sperm compared to 1.98 +/- 0.3 days for
sperm from vaginal washing), and the number of animals giving birth after Al was 
smaller (0 vs. 6; P < 0.05). The proportions of motile (74.8 vs. 70.7%), live
(84.7 vs. 81%), and morphologically normal (91.9 vs. 87.6%) sperm in the
ejaculates were not affected by the semen collection method, but velocity
parameters, such as curvilinear velocity, straight line velocity, and average
path velocity, as assessed by computerized motility analysis, were significantly 
lower in vaginal washings than in electroejaculates (P < 0.023, 0.008, and 0.008,
respectively). Mean angular deviation and beat cross frequency were greater in
vaginal washings than in electroejaculates (P < 0.016 and 0.008, respectively).
Therefore the effect of semen collection method on sperm function should always
be considered when designing reproductive studies.


PMID: 8723441  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3809. Mov Disord. 1996 Mar;11(2):125-35.

An appraisal of the antiparkinsonian activity of piribedil in
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-treated common marmosets.

Smith L(1), De Salvia M, Jenner P, Marsden CD.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Diseases Research Centre, King's College, London, England,
UK.

The D2 dopamine agonist piribedil is not widely used in the treatment of
Parkinson's disease because it was thought to be effective mainly on parkinsonian
tremor and to produce a high incidence of peripheral side effects, particular
nausea. In this study, we used 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine
(MPTP)-treated primates to reevaluate the antiparkinsonian ability of piribedil
after its oral administration in the presence or absence of domperidone
pretreatment. Adult common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) were treated with the
nigral toxin MPTP to induce a parkinsonian syndrome characterised primarily by
bradykinesia and other motor deficits. Oral administration of a solution of
piribedil [1-(3,4-methylenedioxybenzyl)-4-(2-pyrimidinyl)piperazine] produced a
dose-related reversal of all MPTP locomotor and behavioural deficits. However,
this effect was short lived and associated with unwanted effects, particular
nausea and retching, which clearly hindered locomotion. In contrast, after
pretreatment with the peripheral dopamine antagonist domperidone, administration 
of piribedil did not induce nausea or retching in MPTP-treated marmosets. In
these animals, piribedil caused a more marked and longer lasting enhancement of
locomotor activity and a further reduction in behavioural deficits than that
observed after administration of piribedil alone. In addition, piribedil induced 
increased vigilance and awareness. These data show that piribedil can reverse
akinesia and rigidity in MPTP-treated primates. In addition, they show the drug
to be effective without peripheral side effects when used in conjunction with
domperidone. These data indicate that piribedil should be an effective
monotherapy for Parkinson's disease.

DOI: 10.1002/mds.870110203 
PMID: 8684381  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

