

3813. J Comp Neurol. 1996 Feb 26;366(1):76-92.

Morphology of retinal ganglion cells in a new world monkey, the marmoset
Callithrix jacchus.

Ghosh KK(1), Goodchild AK, Sefton AE, Martin PR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology F13, University of Sydney, NSW, Australia.

We studied the morphology of retinal ganglion cells in a diurnal New World
primate, the marmoset Callithrix jacchus. This species is of interest as a model 
for primate vision because it has good behavioural visual acuity, and the retina 
and subcortical visual pathways are very similar to those of Old World monkeys
and humans. Ganglion cells were labelled by placing small crystals of the
carbocyanin dye DiI into the optic fibre layer, or by intracellular injection of 
neurobiotin. Two main classes of ganglion cell were labelled. We call these Group
A cells and Group B cells: they are respectively homologous to parasol and midget
cell classes. Group A and Group B cells show similar patterns of dye coupling,
dendritic stratification and dendritic field size as their counterparts in Old
World monkeys and humans. A third group of cells, which we call Group C, is
morphologically heterogeneous. Examples corresponding to wide-field ganglion cell
types described in Old World primates were encountered. One subgroup of C cells
has a morphology very similar to that of the small bistratified (blue-on) cell
described in macaque retina, suggesting that this functional pathway is common to
all primates. As for other New World monkeys, the marmoset shows a sex-linked
polymorphism of cone pigment expression, such that all males are dichromats and
the majority of females are trichromats. No systematic differences in Group B
cells were seen between male and female retinas, suggesting that trichromacy is
not accompanied by specific changes in ganglion cell morphology.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1096-9861(19960226)366:1<76::AID-CNE6>3.0.CO;2-H 
PMID: 8866847  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3814. J Comp Neurol. 1996 Feb 26;366(1):55-75.

Comparison of photoreceptor spatial density and ganglion cell morphology in the
retina of human, macaque monkey, cat, and the marmoset Callithrix jacchus.

Goodchild AK(1), Ghosh KK, Martin PR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, University of Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.

We studied the relationship between the morphology of ganglion cells and the
spatial density of photoreceptors in the retina of two Old World primates, human 
and macaque monkey; the diurnal New World marmoset Callithrix jacchus; and the
cat. Ganglion cells in macaque and marmoset were labelled by intracellular
injection with Neurobiotin or by DiI diffusion labelling in fixed tissue. Cone
photoreceptor densities were measured from the same retinas. Supplemental data
for macaque and data for human and cat were taken from published studies. For the
primates studied, the central retina is characterised by a constant numerical
convergence of cones to ganglion cells. Midget ganglion cells derive their input,
via a midget bipolar cell, from a single cone. Parasol cells derive their input
from 40-140 cones. Outside the central retina, the convergence increases with
eccentricity. The convergence to beta cells in the cat retina is very close to
that for parasol cells in primate retina. The convergence of rod photoreceptors
to ganglion cells is similar in human, macaque, and marmoset, with parasol cells 
receiving input from 10-15 times more rods than midget cells. The low convergence
of cones to midget cells in human and macaque retinas is associated with
distinctive dendritic "clusters" in midget cells' dendritic fields. Convergence
in marmoset is higher, and the clusters are absent. We conclude that the
complementary changes in photoreceptor density and ganglion cell morphology
should be considered when forming linking hypotheses between dendritic field,
receptive field, and psychophysical properties of primate vision.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1096-9861(19960226)366:1<55::AID-CNE5>3.0.CO;2-J 
PMID: 8866846  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

