

3817. J Comp Neurol. 1996 Feb 19;365(4):628-39.

Shell and core in monkey and human nucleus accumbens identified with antibodies
to calbindin-D28k.

Meredith GE(1), Pattiselanno A, Groenewegen HJ, Haber SN.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy and Embryology, Vrije Universiteit Faculty of Medicine, 
Amsterdam, Netherlands. gmeredit@gate.rcsi.ie

The neurochemical division of the rodent nucleus accumbens into shell and core is
now a widely accepted concept. However, such divisions in the primate nucleus
accumbens have yet to be fully clarified and described. In the present study, the
forebrains of three primates--marmoset, rhesus monkey, and human--and a Wistar
rat, were immunoreacted with antibodies directed against calbindin-D28k. The
patterns of immunoreactivity in the primates' ventral striatum were mapped and
compared to that of rat. Calbindin staining was uneven in all species and there
was no evidence of a bicompartmental organization, i.e., striosome/patch and
matrix, in central parts of the nucleus. Nucleus accumbens in primates, as in
rat, could be divided immunohistochemically into a crescent-shaped outer
shell--medially, ventrally and laterally--and an inner core. In general, medial
parts of the shell stained less intensely for calbindin than did lateral parts.
However, interspecific variation in the intensity of the immunoreactive staining 
and the mediolateral extent of the shell was obvious. The core, which
immunostained unevenly, was consistently more intensely immunoreactive than
either medial or lateral shell in all species except the marmoset. These results 
suggest that the neurochemical subdivisions of shell and core established for
nucleus accumbens of rodents are also present in primates. However, further work 
is needed to establish whether these territories are homologous and, if so, the
full extent of that homology.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1096-9861(19960219)365:4<628::AID-CNE9>3.0.CO;2-6 
PMID: 8742307  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3818. Experientia. 1996 Feb 15;52(2):101-10.

Characterization and localization of the rat, mouse and human testicular
phosphatidylethanolamine binding protein.

Seddiqi N(1), Segretain D, Bucquoy S, Pineau C, Jégou B, Jollès P, Schoentgen F.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire des protéines, CNRS URA 1188, Université René Descartes, Paris,
France.

A cytosolic 23kDa protein was initially purified from bovine brain and shown to
bind phosphatidylethanolamine. Later, it was also characterized in rat and human 
brain, and it is now known to be widespread, having been found in numerous
tissues in several species. Here, we report the high level of mRNA and
phosphatidyl ethanolamine binding protein expression in rat testis and to a
lesser extent in mouse testis. In human testis, although it was not detectable by
Northern blot analysis, the mRNA was shown to be present when PCR amplification
was performed. Immunohistochemical experiments revealed that the testicular
phosphatidylethanolamine binding protein (tPBP) is principally expressed in the
elongated spermatids of both rat and mouse testis. This finding, and the
association of tPBP with cellular membranes, suggest its possible implication in 
membrane remodelling during spermatid maturation.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01923352 
PMID: 8608809  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

