

3820. Behav Brain Res. 1996 Feb;75(1-2):13-25.

Cognitive functions of the basal forebrain cholinergic system in monkeys: memory 
or attention?

Voytko ML(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Comparative Medicine, Bowman Gray School of Medicine,
Winston-Salem, NC 27157-1040, USA. mlvoytko@cpm.bgsm.wfu.edu

The cholinergic hypothesis of memory dysfunction originally proposed that
dysfunction of cholinergic neurons in the basal forebrain cholinergic system
(BFCS) may be responsible for the memory deficits associated with aging and
Alzheimer's disease (AD). This hypothesis directed focus on the BFCS in
experimental animal models of AD. In contrast to numerous studies in rodents,
fewer investigations have been conducted in monkeys with BFCS lesions. The
medical septal nucleus/nucleus of the diagonal band of Broca (MS/NDBB) and the
nucleus basalis of Meynert (NBM) may be involved in different cognitive functions
in monkeys. Although few investigations have specifically addressed the issue of 
cognitive functions of the MS/NDBB in monkeys, there is some indication that
these regions may be important for memory. In contrast, lesions of the NBM do not
consistently disrupt mnemonic functions in monkeys. Recent electrophysiological
and lesion studies of monkeys indicate that the NBM may play a more important
role in attention functions, impairments of which are an early and significant
feature of patients with AD.

DOI: 10.1016/0166-4328(95)00143-3 
PMID: 8800650  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3821. Steroids. 1996 Feb;61(2):69-73.

Distribution of hippocampal mineralocorticoid and glucocorticoid receptor mRNA in
a glucocorticoid resistant nonhuman primate.

Johnson EO(1), Brady L, Gold PW, Chrousos GP.

Author information: 
(1)Section on Pediatric Endocrinology, Developmental Endocrinology Branch, NICHD,
Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.

Glucocorticoids regulate the activity of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis 
through both mineralocorticoid (MR) and glucocorticoid (GR) receptors in the
hippocampus. In addition, glucocorticoids down-regulate hippocampal expression of
MR and GR mRNA and protein, presumably decreasing their own effect. Marmosets are
a New World primate characterized by extraordinarily high levels of circulating
ACTH and cortisol. The relative glucocorticoid insensitivity of these animals to 
their massive levels of glucocorticoids was attributed to a decreased affinity of
their GR for glucocorticoids, as well as a compromised ability of this receptor
to transactivate glucocorticoid-responsive genes. The lack of mineralocorticoid
excess, on the other hand, was attributed to a renal MR which responded poorly to
cortisol, but normally to aldosterone. The purpose of this study was to examine
MR and GR mRNA expression in the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus jacchus)
hippocampus. Overall, steady state levels of both MR and GR mRNA were elevated in
all of the hippocampal subfields of the marmoset, and this was obvious in rough
comparisons with those of a typical glucocorticoid-sensitive Old World primate,
the rhesus monkey (Macaca mulata). Notable were the extremely high levels of GR
mRNA in the dentate gyrus and field CA3 of the marmoset. The GR mRNA density
distribution of the marmoset also appeared to differ from that in the rhesus and 
from those previously reported in rats and humans. These findings suggest that
there is a compensatory elevation of MR and GR mRNAs in the marmoset hippocampus,
which appears to be the result of target tissue resistance to glucocorticoids and
inappropriate down-regulation by the elevated, but ineffective, circulating
cortisol.

DOI: 10.1016/0039-128x(95)00195-v 
PMID: 8750435  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

