

3831. J Reprod Fertil Suppl. 1996;50:43-54.

Immunocytochemical localization of ZP3 in primordial follicles of rabbit,
marmoset, rhesus monkey and human ovaries using antibodies against human ZP3.

Grootenhuis AJ(1), Philipsen HL, de Breet-Grijsbach JT, van Duin M.

Author information: 
(1)Scientific Development Group, N.V. Organon, Oss, Netherlands.

Active immunization with zona pellucida (ZP) proteins leads to depletion of
primordial and recruited follicles in the ovary by a yet unknown mechanism. Small
amounts of ZP present on primordial follicles or granulosa cells may be one of
the reasons for this ovarian pathology. This study was undertaken in an attempt
to identify the presence of ZP in or on primordial follicles and granulosa cells 
in ovaries of rabbits, common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus), rhesus monkeys
(Macacas mulatta) and humans. Therefore, monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) and rabbit 
and mouse antisera against recombinant human ZP3 (hZP3) were produced. All these 
antibodies bound to the ZP of native intact human oocytes. Several fixatives have
been tested on pieces of rabbit ovaries. With 4% (w/v) paraformaldehyde in PBS
(4% PFA) followed by paraffin embedding and cryostat sections postfixed with 4%
PFA, the most intense staining of ZP with one of the mAbs was obtained and the
morphology was well preserved. In humans, besides the ZP, the oocyte cytoplasm
and granulosa cells of most primordial and recruited follicles were also stained 
with these antibodies. In rhesus monkey ovaries, all primordial oocytes were also
stained, in addition to some granulosa cells of primary follicles. In marmosets, 
small dots of immunoreactive ZP were found on 60% of the primordial follicles but
granulosa cells were not stained. In rabbits, only minor staining of primordial
follicles was observed. After passive immunization of rabbits with mAb 4,
antibodies were found on both primordial and recruited follicles. These results
clearly show the presence of ZP3 on primordial follicles and in granulosa cells, 
and this could explain the ZP-induced ovarian pathology after active immunization
with ZP3.


PMID: 8984187  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3832. J Reprod Fertil Suppl. 1996;50:175-82.

Evaluation of zona pellucida antigens as potential candidates for
immunocontraception.

Paterson M(1), Wilson MR, van Duin M, Aitken RJ.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Reproductive Biology Unit, Centre for Reproductive Biology, Edinburgh, UK.

Antibodies directed against the zona pellucida can interrupt sperm-egg
recognition in vitro. However, the mechanisms by which anti-zona antibodies exert
this contraceptive effect in vivo remain uncertain. There is an accumulating body
of evidence to suggest that active immunity against zona antigens not only
induces infertility via an antibody-mediated interruption of sperm--egg
interaction but also disrupts normal ovarian function. We have evaluated the
consequence of inducing active immunity against purified recombinant human ZP3
(rec.hZP3) and human ZP3 peptides, using the marmoset monkey, Callithrix jacchus,
as an animal model. Although infertility was established in animals that received
rec.hZP3, it was associated with ovarian dysfunction characterized by suppression
of folliculogenesis and depletion of the primordial follicle pool. Immunization
with continuous human ZP3 peptides, identified by epitope mapping studies, did
not induce ovarian pathology but the antibody titres were insufficient to
suppress fertility significantly and consistently. Clearly, further research is
required to identify and segregate epitopes on the zona glycoproteins that are
capable of inducing infertility without any side effects.

PIP: Antibodies directed against the zona pellucida (ZP) have been demonstrated
to interrupt sperm-egg recognition in vitro, yet the mechanisms by which
anti-zona antibodies exert this contraceptive effect in vivo are unclear.
Emerging evidence suggests that active immunity against zona antigens both
induces infertility through an antibody-mediated interruption of sperm-egg
interaction and disrupts normal ovarian function. This study used the marmoset
monkey to assess the consequences of inducing active immunity against purified
recombinant human ZP3 and human ZP3 peptides. Although recombinant human ZP3
induced infertility in these animals, it was associated with suppression of
folliculogenesis and depletion of the primordial follicle pool. Immunization with
continuous human ZP3 peptides, identified by epitope mapping studies, did not
induce ovarian dysfunction, but the antibody titers were insufficient to suppress
fertility significantly and consistently. Future homologous active immunization
trials will depend on generation of epitope maps of the marmoset ZP3 sequence.

PMID: 8984181  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

