

3833. Arch Toxicol. 1996;70(11):749-56.

Stereoselective distribution of the teratogenic thalidomide analogue EM12 in the 
early embryo of marmoset monkey, Wistar rat and NMRI mouse.

Schmahl HJ(1), Dencker L, Plum C, Chahoud I, Nau H.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Toxikologie und Embryopharmakologie, Freie Universität Berlin,
Germany.

Thalidomide administration during early gestation results in specific and
dramatic limb defects in primates, but not in laboratory rodents such as the rat 
and mouse. The thalidomide analogue EM12
[2-(2,6-dioxopiperidine-3-yl)-phthalimidine] was used in the present study
because this compound is metabolically more stable and teratogenically more
potent than thalidomide in the monkey. We have administered the pure enantiomers,
since we have previously shown that S-EM12 proved to be much more teratogenic in 
the monkey than R-EM12. In maternal plasma, placenta and embryo of the pregnant
marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus) and Wistar rat, the concentrations were
investigated of the enantiomers and their metabolites after administration of R- 
and S-EM12. With whole body autoradiography the distribution in the embryo,
including the target tissue, the embryonic limb bud was examined in the NMRI
mouse and marmoset monkey. Our investigations showed that both the R- and the
S-enantiomers were transferred to the embryo during organogenesis [monkey,
gestation day (GD) 61; rat, GD 12; mouse, GD 10]. The gestation period chosen was
toward the end of the thalidomide-sensitive stage, but yielded sufficient
gestational material for analysis. Considerable amounts of the enantiomers were
produced via racemization of the administered pure enantiomers and were present
in maternal plasma as well as in placenta and embryo. In the monkey, the
racemization were stereoselective: the S-enantiomer was eliminated more slowly in
the monkey than the R-enantiomer, possibly because of stereospecific binding and 
metabolism. In the plasma and embryo of both rat and monkey, the metabolites were
detected in considerably lower concentrations than EM12, emphasizing the
importance of the parent drug in regard to the teratogenic effect. The whole-body
autoradiography in marmoset and mouse showed high radioactivity in the embryonic 
CNS, the branchial apparatus and in the limb buds. The S-enantiomer of EM12 was
more strongly concentrated than the R-enantiomer in these areas. In the limb
buds, the highest concentrations of radioactivity were observed in the periphery,
sometimes at the very tip of the buds. Accumulation of radioactivity in limb buds
and neural epithelium relative to other areas of the embryo was much more
pronounced in the monkey than in the mouse. Future studies must demonstrate if
this accumulation has implications for the mechanism of thalidomide teratogenesis
in primate species.

DOI: 10.1007/s002040050336 
PMID: 8896721  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3834. Biol Reprod. 1996 Jan;54(1):91-9.

Metabolism of reproductive steroids during the ovarian cycle in two species of
callitrichids, Saguinus oedipus and Callithrix jacchus, and estimation of the
ovulatory period from fecal steroids.

Ziegler TE(1), Scheffler G, Wittwer DJ, Schultz-Darken N, Snowdon CT, Abbott DH.

Author information: 
(1)Wisconsin Regional Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin, Madison
53715, USA.

Gonadal steroids were measured in daily fecal samples providing comparative data 
on steroid metabolism in two genera of New World primates. Circulating bioactive 
LH and progesterone concentrations and fecal progesterone, pregnanediol,
estradiol, and estrone concentrations were measured by collecting blood and daily
fecal samples from four captive common marmoset females and four cotton-top
tamarin females for 30 days. High recoveries (> 80%) of labeled steroids that
were added directly to the feces before extraction were recovered from feces of
both species. Because of the presence of complex steroid conjugates, only one
fifth the amount of estradiol was measured without solvolysis as compared to the 
amount measured with solvolysis. In tamarins, steroids were metabolized rapidly, 
with all postovulatory increases occurring within two days after the circulating 
LH peak (an increase of 2 SD higher than mean follicular levels). In marmosets,
steroid excretion was slower; increased steroid levels occurred 2-4 days after
the LH peak except in the case of estrone, which did not consistently increase
after the LH peak. Circulating estrone and estradiol both contributed to the high
excretion of estradiol in the feces from both species. The timing in the delay in
excretion of fecal steroids was used to accurately determine the ovulatory period
to within a 2-day window. This degree of accuracy is possible when the duration
of the delay to the LH peak is known for a given species. Additionally, steroid
concentrations were highly correlated between frozen and lyophilized fecal
samples (0.81 +/- 0.07 SEM), indicating that fluid removal from the feces did not
effectively alter steroid profiles.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod54.1.91 
PMID: 8838005  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

