

3837. Life Sci. 1996;59(9):719-30.

Studies on the immunoglobulin-E system of the common marmoset in comparison with 
human data.

Schmidt S(1), Neubert R, Schmitt M, Neubert D.

Author information: 
(1)University Medical Center, Free University Berlin, Institute of Toxicology and
Embryopharmacology, Germany.

In the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus jacchus) immunoglobulin E (IgE) serum 
levels and IgE synthesis of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) in vitro
were investigated in order to look for homologies to the human system. While IgE 
was not found in marmoset blood plasma with three commercial antihuman IgE-kits
with monoclonal antibodies (mAbs), two other kits using polyclonal antibodies
against human IgE revealed detectable IgE concentrations of up to 10 kU/liter in 
plasma samples of 19 out of 21 marmosets. In accord with human data, rhIL-4
showed biological functions under in vitro conditions in PBMC of the New World
monkey. Proliferation, measured by 3H-thymidine incorporation, of isolated PBMC
of marmosets could be induced by rhIL-4. FACScan analysis showed an enhanced
expression of the low affinity IgE receptor CD23 (Fc epsilon RII) on CD20+ B
lymphocytes after incubation with rhIL-4. Furthermore, PBMC from marmosets could 
be stimulated by IL-4 alone or in combination with dexamethasone as well as with 
lipopolysaccharide (E. coli) to produce IgE in culture. The results indicate that
Callithrix jacchus is using an IgE system that is rather similar to that of
humans, although not completely identical. Antihuman mAbs and rhIL-4 can be used 
to investigate IgE regulation in vitro of marmoset PBMC. These data encourage the
development of a primate animal model for studying possible modifications of the 
IgE system under pathological conditions to find new therapeutic strategies in
atopic diseases.

DOI: 10.1016/0024-3205(96)00358-x 
PMID: 8761025  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3838. Neurochem Int. 1996 Jan;28(1):41-9.

Acute MPTP treatment produces no changes in mitochondrial complex activities and 
indices of oxidative damage in the common marmoset ex vivo one week after
exposure to the toxin.

Gerlach M(1), Götz M, Dirr A, Kupsch A, Janetzky B, Oertel W, Sautter J, Schwarz 
J, Reichmann H, Riederer P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Neurochemistry, Julius-Maximilians-Universität,
Würzburg, Germany.

1-Methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) has been shown to cause a
Parkinsonian syndrome in man and non-human primates. Hypotheses concerning the
pathogenetic mechanisms of MPTP toxicity on nigro-striatal dopaminergic neurons
relate to impairment of mitochondrial function and oxidative stress. However,
surprisingly few primate studies addressed these issues ex vivo. Thus, the
present study assessed the enzyme activities of the respiratory chain, GSH/GSSG
and ubiquinol/ubiquinone content in the MPTP primate model (common marmoset,
Callithrix jacchus; 2 mg MPTP-hydrochloride/kg body wt were injected
subcutaneously (s.c.) on four consecutive days; animals were sacrificed 7 days
after last MPTP exposure). Activities of respiratory chain enzymes were measured 
in crude homogenates of the caudate nucleus, because the probable toxic
metabolite of MPTP, MPP+, is transported into dopaminergic neurons via the
dopamine uptake system in striatal synapses and mitochondria are concentrated in 
axonal terminals. Since MPP+ can damage membranes of axonal terminals of
nigro-striatal neurons we measured GSH/GSSG contents in the putamen and
ubiquinol/ubiquinone concentrations in the substantia nigra and putamen as
indices of oxidative damage. At the time of sacrifice MPTP-induced deficits
comprised severe behavioural Parkinsonian symptoms, profound depletion of
striatal dopamine and its major metabolites as well as pronounced loss of
nigro-striatal neurons. Despite these severe lesions, acute MPTP treatment had no
effect on any of the enzymes of the respiratory chain in the caudate nucleus and 
indices of oxidative damage in both the substantia nigra and putamen. These
results suggest that factors other than mitochondrial impairment and/or oxidative
stress may be involved in MPTP neurotoxicity in primates. Alternatively, early
compensatory mechanisms and/or transient effects could account for the reported
results and will be discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/0197-0186(95)00063-e 
PMID: 8746763  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

