

3838. Neurochem Int. 1996 Jan;28(1):41-9.

Acute MPTP treatment produces no changes in mitochondrial complex activities and 
indices of oxidative damage in the common marmoset ex vivo one week after
exposure to the toxin.

Gerlach M(1), Götz M, Dirr A, Kupsch A, Janetzky B, Oertel W, Sautter J, Schwarz 
J, Reichmann H, Riederer P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Neurochemistry, Julius-Maximilians-Universität,
Würzburg, Germany.

1-Methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) has been shown to cause a
Parkinsonian syndrome in man and non-human primates. Hypotheses concerning the
pathogenetic mechanisms of MPTP toxicity on nigro-striatal dopaminergic neurons
relate to impairment of mitochondrial function and oxidative stress. However,
surprisingly few primate studies addressed these issues ex vivo. Thus, the
present study assessed the enzyme activities of the respiratory chain, GSH/GSSG
and ubiquinol/ubiquinone content in the MPTP primate model (common marmoset,
Callithrix jacchus; 2 mg MPTP-hydrochloride/kg body wt were injected
subcutaneously (s.c.) on four consecutive days; animals were sacrificed 7 days
after last MPTP exposure). Activities of respiratory chain enzymes were measured 
in crude homogenates of the caudate nucleus, because the probable toxic
metabolite of MPTP, MPP+, is transported into dopaminergic neurons via the
dopamine uptake system in striatal synapses and mitochondria are concentrated in 
axonal terminals. Since MPP+ can damage membranes of axonal terminals of
nigro-striatal neurons we measured GSH/GSSG contents in the putamen and
ubiquinol/ubiquinone concentrations in the substantia nigra and putamen as
indices of oxidative damage. At the time of sacrifice MPTP-induced deficits
comprised severe behavioural Parkinsonian symptoms, profound depletion of
striatal dopamine and its major metabolites as well as pronounced loss of
nigro-striatal neurons. Despite these severe lesions, acute MPTP treatment had no
effect on any of the enzymes of the respiratory chain in the caudate nucleus and 
indices of oxidative damage in both the substantia nigra and putamen. These
results suggest that factors other than mitochondrial impairment and/or oxidative
stress may be involved in MPTP neurotoxicity in primates. Alternatively, early
compensatory mechanisms and/or transient effects could account for the reported
results and will be discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/0197-0186(95)00063-e 
PMID: 8746763  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3839. J Hered. 1996 Jan-Feb;87(1):74-7.

Genetic and environmental impacts on litter size and early infant survival in
three species of callitrichids.

Jaquish CE(1), Cheverud JM, Tardif SD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, Southwest Foundation for Biomedical Research, San
Antonio, TX 78228, USA.

Callitrichids are unusual among anthropoid primates in that they can deliver one 
to four offspring per litter in captivity. Factors underlying intraspecific
variation in litter size are unclear. Data from the Oak Ridge Associated
Universities (ORAU) Marmoset Research Center provided an opportunity to
investigate determinants of variation in (1) average litter size at birth and (2)
average litter size surviving to 2 weeks of age in Saguinus fuscicollis, S.
oedipus, and Callithrix jacchus. The objectives were to (1) investigate the
impact of parity, husbandry, origin (wild or captive), and subspecific
hybridization on phenotypic variance in litter size and (2) to estimate the
heritability of litter size at birth and at 14 days. Husbandry changes were the
only significant covariate and increased litter size at birth in C. jacchus only.
Heritability estimates for average litter size at birth were significant only in 
S. fuscicollis (h2 = 0.306). Heritability of average litter size at 2 weeks of
age was not significantly greater than zero. Estimates of genetic variability
were relatively high, however both traits had very high levels of residual
variance. The results suggest that litter size is a malleable trait that may
respond to environmental factors.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.jhered.a022959 
PMID: 8742821  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

