

3842. Vis Neurosci. 1996 Jan-Feb;13(1):145-60.

Functional architecture of area 17 in normal and monocularly deprived marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus).

Sengpiel F(1), Troilo D, Kind PC, Graham B, Blakemore C.

Author information: 
(1)University Laboratory of Physiology, University of Oxford, UK.

The organization of the primary visual cortex (VI) of the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus) was studied both physiologically and by means of
transneuronal labelling of geniculocortical afferents. We addressed the question 
whether monocular deprivation (MD) could stabilize segregation into ocular
dominance (OD) columns, which are not seen in normal adult marmosets but are
present in juvenile animals (Spatz, 1979, 1989). Properties of neurons in normal 
marmosets closely resembled those of other New-World and Old-World monkeys and
orderly tangential progressions of preferred orientation were observed. However, 
in contrast to species that display well-defined OD columns, neurons of layer 4
in V1 of normal adult marmosets received balanced inputs from the two eyes. Early
MD (even though followed by prolonged binocular experience into adulthood)
resulted in a reduction of cell size in laminae of the lateral geniculate nucleus
with input from the deprived eye and a dramatic overall shift in ocular dominance
towards the nondeprived eye in the cortex. However, isolated clusters of cells
dominated by the deprived eye were found in both layers 4 and 6. Injection of
lectin-conjugated horseradish peroxidase (WGA-HRP) into the deprived eye revealed
elongated patches of terminal label, about 350 microns wide, in flat-mounted
sections through layer 4. Afferent segregation was sharper and more regular in
the region of V1 representing parafoveal visual space than in that representing
the fovea. Our findings support the notion that all Old-World and New-World
monkeys possess the capacity for segregation of geniculocortical afferents into
OD columns.

DOI: 10.1017/s0952523800007197 
PMID: 8730996  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3843. Brain Res Bull. 1996;40(1):21-32.

Effects of lesions of different parts of the septo-hippocampal system in primates
on learning and retention of information acquired before or after surgery.

Ridley RM(1), Baker HF, Harder JA, Pearson C.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Comparative Cognition Team, Department of Experimental Psychology,
Cambridge, United Kingdom. rmr21@cus.cam.ac.uk

Data from a large series of experiments on marmosets with lesions of the
septal/diagonal band area (DB), fornix or CA1 area of the hippocampus are
analysed in terms of retention of information learned before surgery, acquisition
of new information and retention of information acquired after surgery. It is
shown that although all three lesions impair acquisition of a specific type of
new information, lesions of CA1 result in a severe retrograde amnesia but no
forgetting of that type of information adequately acquired after surgery, whereas
lesions of the DB do not cause retrograde amnesia but do result in significant
forgetting. Monkeys with fornix transection occupied an intermediate position in 
their pattern of learning impairments; some animals showed evidence of
forgetting, whereas the great majority showed retrograde amnesia. These data may 
be relevant to an understanding of the different extent of amnesia in patients
with different pathology within the medial temporal lobe and associated
subcortical structures.

DOI: 10.1016/0361-9230(96)00028-7 
PMID: 8722749  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

