

3845. Pharm Res. 1996 Jan;13(1):97-101.

Interspecies scaling of bosentan, a new endothelin receptor antagonist and
integration of in vitro data into allometric scaling.

Lave T(1), Coassolo P, Ubeaud G, Brandt R, Schmitt C, Dupin S, Jaeck D, Chou RC.

Author information: 
(1)Hoffmann-LaRoche, Basel, Switzerland.

PURPOSE: The goal of this study was to find a rational and reliable method of
using animal data to predict the clearance of metabolised drugs in humans.
METHODS: One such approach is to use in vitro liver models (e.g. hepatocytes and 
microsomes) to determine the relative capacities of the various animal species
and humans to metabolise the test compound. These data can then be combined with 
the in vivo clearances in animals, to calculate the in vivo clearance in humans
using allometric scaling techniques. In this study, this approach was evaluated
with a new endothelin receptor antagonist, bosentan, which is eliminated mainly
through metabolism and is characterized by very large interspecies differences in
clearance. Therefore, this compound provided a stringent test of our new
extrapolation method for allometric scaling.
RESULTS: The results obtained with bosentan showed that adjusting the in vivo
clearance in the different animal species for the relative rates of metabolism in
vitro gave a far better prediction of human clearance than an empirical
correcting factor (brain weight).
CONCLUSIONS: This approach provided a more rational basis for predicting the
clearance of metabolised compounds in humans.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1016037519116 
PMID: 8668687  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3846. Cytogenet Cell Genet. 1996;72(4):331-8.

Chromosomal relationships and phylogenetic and clustering analyses on genes
Callithrix group argentata (Callitrichidae, Primates).

Nagamachi CY(1), Pieczarka JC, Barros RM, Schwarz M, Muniz JA, Mattevi MS.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Genética, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul, Porto
Alegre, Brazil. Julio@marajo.secom.ufpa.br

The karyotypes of three species of marmosets of the Callithrix argentata group
(C. argentata, C. humeralifera and C. chrysoleuca) were studied. Comparisons were
made among species and with the previously described karyotypes of C. emiliae, C.
mauesi (argentata group) and C. jacchus (jacchus group). Two chromosomes
rearrangements differentiate the argentata (2n=44) and jacchus (2n=46) groups:
fusion or fission and a paracentric invasion. The argentata group is also
characterized by the addition of large amounts of distal constitutive
heterochromatin (CH) in some chromosomes, while the jacchus group shows mainly
centromeric heterochromatin. The five species of the argentata group differ in
the amount or location of the distal CH. Interspecific differences were converted
to a Basic Data Matrix (BDM), that was submitted to phenetic and cladistic
analyses. For cladistic analyses C. jacchus was the outgroup. The results agree
with morphological and geographical data.

DOI: 10.1159/000134216 
PMID: 8641142  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

