

3854. J Neurophysiol. 1995 Dec;74(6):2685-706.

Representation of a species-specific vocalization in the primary auditory cortex 
of the common marmoset: temporal and spectral characteristics.

Wang X(1), Merzenich MM, Beitel R, Schreiner CE.

Author information: 
(1)Coleman Laboratory, University of California, San Francisco 94143-0732, USA.

1. The temporal and spectral characteristics of neural representations of a
behaviorally important species-specific vocalization were studied in neuronal
populations of the primary auditory cortex (A1) of barbiturate-anesthetized adult
common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus), using both natural and synthetic
vocalizations. The natural vocalizations used in electrophysiological experiments
were recorded from the animals under study or from their conspecifics. These
calls were frequently produced in vocal exchanges between members of our marmoset
colony and are part of the well-defined and highly stereotyped vocal repertoire
of this species. 2. The spectrotemporal discharge pattern of spatially
distributed neuron populations in cortical field A1 was found to be correlated
with the spectrotemporal acoustic pattern of a complex natural vocalization.
However, the A1 discharge pattern was not a faithful replication of the acoustic 
parameters of a vocalization stimulus, but had been transformed into a more
abstract representation than that in the auditory periphery. 3. Subpopulations of
A1 neurons were found to respond selectively to natural vocalizations as compared
with synthetic variations that had the same spectral but different temporal
characteristics. A subpopulation responding selectively to a given monkey's call 
shared some but not all of its neuronal memberships with other
individual-call-specific neuronal subpopulations. 4. In the time domain,
responses of individual A1 units were phase-locked to the envelope of a portion
of a complex vocalization, which was centered around a unit's characteristic
frequency (CF). As a whole, discharges of A1 neuronal populations were
phase-locked to discrete stimulus events but not to their rapidly changing
spectral contents. The consequence was a reduction in temporal complexity and an 
increase in cross-population response synchronization. 5. In the frequency
domain, major features of the stimulus spectrum were reflected in rate-CF
profiles. The spectral features of a natural call were equally or more strongly
represented by a subpopulation of A1 neurons that responded selectively to that
call as compared with the entire responding A1 population. 6. Neuronal responses 
to a complex call were distributed very widely across cortical field A1. At the
same time, the responses evoked by a vocalization scattered in discrete cortical 
patches were strongly synchronized to stimulus events and to each other. As a
result, at any given time during the course of a vocalization, a coherent
representation of the integrated spectrotemporal characteristics of a particular 
vocalization was present in a specific neuronal population. 7. These results
suggest that the representation of behaviorally important and spectrotemporally
complex species-specific vocalizations in A1 is 1) temporally integrated and 2)
spectrally distributed in nature, and that the representation is carried by
spatially dispersed and synchronized cortical cell assemblies that correspond to 
each individual's vocalizations in a specific and abstracted way.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.1995.74.6.2685 
PMID: 8747224  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3855. Glycobiology. 1995 Dec;5(8):775-82.

alpha-galactosyl (Galalpha1-3Galbeta1-4GlcNAc-R) epitopes on human cells:
synthesis of the epitope on human red cells by recombinant primate
alpha1,3galactosyltransferase expressed in E.coli.

Galili U(1), Anaraki F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, The Medical College of
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, USA.

Developing methods for in vitro synthesis of the carbohydrate structure
Galalpha1-3Galbeta1-4GlcNAc-R (termed the alpha-galactosyl epitope) on human
tumour cells may be of potential clinical significance in cancer immunotherapy.
Tumour vaccines with this epitope would be opsonized in vivo by the natural
anti-Gal antibody, which is present in large amounts in humans, and which
interacts specifically with alpha-galactosyl epitopes. Binding of anti-Gal to
alpha-galactosyl epitopes on tumour cell membranes is likely to increase uptake
of the cell membranes by antigen-presenting cells, such as macrophages, via the
adhesion of the Fc portion of anti-Gal to Fc receptors on these cells. This, in
turn, may increase processing and presentation of tumour-associated antigens by
antigen-presenting cells, and induce an effective immune response against tumour 
cells with these antigens. The present study describes a method for the synthesis
of alpha-galactosyl epitopes on human cells (red cells used as a model) by
recombinant alpha1,3galactosyltransferase (rec. alpha1,3GT) expressed in
bacteria. Escherichia coli was transformed with cDNA of the luminal portion of
New World monkey rec. alpha1,3GT linked to six histidines (His)6 at the
N-terminus. The enzyme produced by the bacteria was isolated from bacterial
lysates on a nickel-Sepharose column and eluted with imidazole. This recombinant 
enzyme displayed acceptor specificity similar to that of rec. alpha1,3GT produced
in COS cells. Red cells were pre-treated with sialidase for exposure of
N-acetyllactosamine acceptors, then subjected to rec. alpha1,3GT activity. This
enzyme synthesized at least 4 x 10(4) alpha-galactosyl epitopes/red cell. These
epitopes were found to be accessible for binding of anti-Gal, as well as
Bandeiraea simplicifolia IB4 lectin. It is argued that the method presented can
be used for the synthesis of alpha-galactosyl epitopes on membranes of autologous
tumour vaccines in humans.

DOI: 10.1093/glycob/5.8.775 
PMID: 8720075  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

