

3855. Glycobiology. 1995 Dec;5(8):775-82.

alpha-galactosyl (Galalpha1-3Galbeta1-4GlcNAc-R) epitopes on human cells:
synthesis of the epitope on human red cells by recombinant primate
alpha1,3galactosyltransferase expressed in E.coli.

Galili U(1), Anaraki F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, The Medical College of
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, USA.

Developing methods for in vitro synthesis of the carbohydrate structure
Galalpha1-3Galbeta1-4GlcNAc-R (termed the alpha-galactosyl epitope) on human
tumour cells may be of potential clinical significance in cancer immunotherapy.
Tumour vaccines with this epitope would be opsonized in vivo by the natural
anti-Gal antibody, which is present in large amounts in humans, and which
interacts specifically with alpha-galactosyl epitopes. Binding of anti-Gal to
alpha-galactosyl epitopes on tumour cell membranes is likely to increase uptake
of the cell membranes by antigen-presenting cells, such as macrophages, via the
adhesion of the Fc portion of anti-Gal to Fc receptors on these cells. This, in
turn, may increase processing and presentation of tumour-associated antigens by
antigen-presenting cells, and induce an effective immune response against tumour 
cells with these antigens. The present study describes a method for the synthesis
of alpha-galactosyl epitopes on human cells (red cells used as a model) by
recombinant alpha1,3galactosyltransferase (rec. alpha1,3GT) expressed in
bacteria. Escherichia coli was transformed with cDNA of the luminal portion of
New World monkey rec. alpha1,3GT linked to six histidines (His)6 at the
N-terminus. The enzyme produced by the bacteria was isolated from bacterial
lysates on a nickel-Sepharose column and eluted with imidazole. This recombinant 
enzyme displayed acceptor specificity similar to that of rec. alpha1,3GT produced
in COS cells. Red cells were pre-treated with sialidase for exposure of
N-acetyllactosamine acceptors, then subjected to rec. alpha1,3GT activity. This
enzyme synthesized at least 4 x 10(4) alpha-galactosyl epitopes/red cell. These
epitopes were found to be accessible for binding of anti-Gal, as well as
Bandeiraea simplicifolia IB4 lectin. It is argued that the method presented can
be used for the synthesis of alpha-galactosyl epitopes on membranes of autologous
tumour vaccines in humans.

DOI: 10.1093/glycob/5.8.775 
PMID: 8720075  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3856. J Clin Invest. 1995 Dec;96(6):2966-74.

Antibody facilitation of multiple sclerosis-like lesions in a nonhuman primate.

Genain CP(1), Nguyen MH, Letvin NL, Pearl R, Davis RL, Adelman M, Lees MB,
Linington C, Hauser SL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University of California, San Francisco 94143, USA.

In the human disease multiple sclerosis (MS), the immune mechanisms responsible
for selective destruction of central nervous system myelin are unknown. In the
common marmoset Callithrix jacchus, a unique demyelinating form of experimental
allergic encephalomyelitis resembling MS can be induced by immunization with
whole myelin. Here we show that the MS-like lesion can be reproduced by
immunization against the extracellular domain of a single myelin protein,
myelin/oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG). By contrast, immunization against the 
quantitatively major myelin proteins myelin basic protein or proteolipid protein 
results in inflammation but little or no demyelination. Furthermore, in the
presence of encephalitogenic (e.g., disease-inducing) T cells, the fully
demyelinated lesion is reconstructed by systemic administration of IgG purified
from whole myelin-, or MOG-immunized animals, and equally by a monoclonal
antibody against MOG, but not by control IgG. Encephalitogenic T cells may
contribute to the MS-like lesion through disruption of the blood-brain barrier
that permits access of demyelinating antibody into the nervous system. The
identification of MOG as a major target antigen for autoimmune demyelination in a
nonhuman primate should facilitate development of specific immunotherapies for
human MS.

DOI: 10.1172/JCI118368 
PMCID: PMC186008
PMID: 8675668  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

