

3864. Mov Disord. 1995 Nov;10(6):731-40.

Chronic L-DOPA administration induces dyskinesias in the 1-methyl-4-
phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-treated common marmoset (Callithrix Jacchus).

Pearce RK(1), Jackson M, Smith L, Jenner P, Marsden CD.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Diseases Research Centre, King's College London, England.

Dyskinesias occur in the majority of patients with Parkinson's disease
chronically treated with L-DOPA and also occur in several nonhuman primate
species after 1-methyl-4phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) and L-DOPA
treatment. The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) shows parkinsonian motor
deficits after MPTP administration, and we now report dyskinesias occurring in
this species during chronic L-DOPA exposure. Marmosets rendered chronically
parkinsonian after MPTP administration were treated orally with L-DOPA plus
carbidopa for 3 weeks. After several days the animals began to display chorea,
choreoathetosis, and dystonia. The severity of dyskinesias varied between the
animals, with the most severely parkinsonian animals displaying the most
dyskinetic movements. Each animal showed an idiosyncratic pattern of dyskinesias,
which was highly reproducible. These L-DOPA-primed animals also received other D2
D1, and mixed D1/D2 agonist drugs. Quinpirole, bromocriptine, pergolide,
apomorphine, and A-77636 all produce dyskinesias that were identical in character
to those seen after L-DOPA administration, but the D1 agonist A-77636 gradually
abolished dyskinesias while preserving its antiparkinsonian activity. The
MPTP-treated marmoset provides a useful model in which to study dyskinesias in
Parkinson's disease and to examine new therapeutic strategies aimed at
alleviating this common side effect of chronic dopamine replacement therapy.

DOI: 10.1002/mds.870100606 
PMID: 8749992  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3865. Cornea. 1995 Nov;14(6):547-53.

Transplantation of corneal tissue from donors with diseases of the central
nervous system.

Hogan RN(1), Cavanagh HD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center
at Dallas 75235-9057, USA.

Comment in
    Cornea. 1995 Nov;14(6):545-6.

A great deal of controversy and concern exists over potential transmission of
central nervous system diseases by corneal transplant. The purpose of this study 
was to evaluate the available data relative to this question, pertaining
especially to transmission of infectious dementia. From these data, determination
of conveyance risks are possible, and rational policies for donor inclusion
criteria can be constructed. Retrospective analysis of available published data
regarding transmission of infectious dementias was performed. Risk of disease
transmission was calculated from population data. Of the various forms of
dementia, only rabies, hepatitis B, and Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) have been
transmitted by corneal transplantation. Transmission of the first two viruses is 
preventable by serologic testing. Prevention of CJD transmission relies on
clinical history. Despite the possibility of transmission and the lack of
available testing, slow virus disease (CJD) has been transmitted only once. That 
this case represents an extremely rare event is supported by a lack of successful
transmission via corneal transplant in monkeys; lower levels of infectious agent 
in cornea than in brain; lack of successful transmission of similar human
dementias, including Alzheimer's disease to primates; the apparent requirement
for homozygosity at codon 129 of chromosome 20 for transmission; lack of
transmission in 5-10% of CJD cases even after brain inoculation; and low
numerical risk of transmission based on population data. Only 0.5-4 CJD infected 
donors per year would be expected. Current Eye Bank Association of America
criteria for donor exclusion based on suspicious history are adequate to protect 
against accidental conveyance of transmissible dementia.


PMID: 8575171  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

