

3865. Cornea. 1995 Nov;14(6):547-53.

Transplantation of corneal tissue from donors with diseases of the central
nervous system.

Hogan RN(1), Cavanagh HD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center
at Dallas 75235-9057, USA.

Comment in
    Cornea. 1995 Nov;14(6):545-6.

A great deal of controversy and concern exists over potential transmission of
central nervous system diseases by corneal transplant. The purpose of this study 
was to evaluate the available data relative to this question, pertaining
especially to transmission of infectious dementia. From these data, determination
of conveyance risks are possible, and rational policies for donor inclusion
criteria can be constructed. Retrospective analysis of available published data
regarding transmission of infectious dementias was performed. Risk of disease
transmission was calculated from population data. Of the various forms of
dementia, only rabies, hepatitis B, and Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) have been
transmitted by corneal transplantation. Transmission of the first two viruses is 
preventable by serologic testing. Prevention of CJD transmission relies on
clinical history. Despite the possibility of transmission and the lack of
available testing, slow virus disease (CJD) has been transmitted only once. That 
this case represents an extremely rare event is supported by a lack of successful
transmission via corneal transplant in monkeys; lower levels of infectious agent 
in cornea than in brain; lack of successful transmission of similar human
dementias, including Alzheimer's disease to primates; the apparent requirement
for homozygosity at codon 129 of chromosome 20 for transmission; lack of
transmission in 5-10% of CJD cases even after brain inoculation; and low
numerical risk of transmission based on population data. Only 0.5-4 CJD infected 
donors per year would be expected. Current Eye Bank Association of America
criteria for donor exclusion based on suspicious history are adequate to protect 
against accidental conveyance of transmissible dementia.


PMID: 8575171  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3866. Am J Pathol. 1995 Nov;147(5):1441-9.

Pathology and immunohistochemistry of callitrichid hepatitis, an emerging disease
of captive New World primates caused by lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus.

Montali RJ(1), Connolly BM, Armstrong DL, Scanga CA, Holmes KV.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, National Zoological Park, Smithsonian Institution,
Washington, DC, USA.

Callitrichid hepatitis is an arenavirus infection that recently emerged as a
highly fatal disease of New World primates in the Callitrichidae family. As we
previously reported, these primates develop hepatitis after contact with mice
that are infected with variants of LCMV (LVMCCH), recently determined to have 86%
identity with GC-P gene of the Armstrong and Western strains of LCMV. Here, we
describe the histopathological lesions and tissue localization of viral antigens 
in confirmed cases of callitrichid hepatitis from recent outbreaks in two U.S.
zoos. The liver in marmosets and tamarins with fatal infections consistently
showed degeneration, necrosis, and inflammation, with variable involvement of the
spleen, lymph nodes, adrenal glands, intestine, pancreas, and central nervous
system. Lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus antigens were identified
immunohistochemically in necrotic foci in these organs as well as in
nondegenerating areas in lungs, kidney, urinary bladder, brain, and testes. The
multi-organ tropism and histological pattern of LCMV infection in marmosets and
tamarins are similar to those reported for the highly virulent arenavirus that
causes Lassa fever in humans. Comparative studies of callitrichid hepatitis and
Lassa fever would therefore be mutually beneficial for human and nonhuman primate
medicine.


PMCID: PMC1869525
PMID: 7485406  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

