

3868. J Chem Neuroanat. 1995 Oct;9(3):155-64.

Effects of unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesions on neuropeptide immunoreactivity 
in the basal ganglia of the common marmoset, Callithrix jacchus, a quantitative
immunohistochemical analysis.

Roeling TA(1), Docter GJ, Voorn P, Melchers BP, Wolters EC, Groenewegen HJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy and Embryology, Vrije Universiteit, Faculty of Medicine,
Graduate School Neurosciences, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

Previous immunocytochemical studies in rats have indicated that striatal dopamine
depletion leads to an increase in enkephalin-immunoreactivity and a decrease in
substance P-immunoreactivity in the striatum. Similar studies in primates have
lead to contradictory results. In the present study changes in tyrosine
hydroxylase-, met-enkephalin- and substance P-immunoreactivity were determined in
the basal ganglia of 6 common marmosets Callithrix jacchus following dopamine
depletion by unilateral intracerebral 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) injections using
three different survival times. The non-lesioned side served as an
intra-individual control. Tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity was strongly
reduced in the entire ipsilateral striatum. Enkephalin-immunoreactivity was
increased throughout the striatum. Substance P-immunoreactivity was significantly
increased in only one case in the caudate nucleus and in two cases in the
putamen, while in other cases either a non-significant increase or decrease was
found. Therefore, the results of the present study indicate that in marmosets
dopamine has a inhibiting effect on the levels of striatal enkephalin, while its 
effect on substance P (SP) appears to be absent.

DOI: 10.1016/0891-0618(95)00072-0 
PMID: 8588831  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3869. Histol Histopathol. 1995 Oct;10(4):889-905.

The thyroid gland of Callithrix jacchus in organ culture.

Maile S(1), Merker HJ.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Toxicology and Prenatal Pharmacology, Free University of Berlin, 
Germany.

Thyroid glands from 7 marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) of different age groups
(newborn, 2 weeks, 2, 7, 8 and 11 months, and 8 years) were grown as organ
culture according to Trowell at the medium/air interphase for 3 to 30 days. The
morphology of thyroid tissue was well preserved until the end of the culture
period. Necroses were only occasionally seen in connective tissue. In contrast to
the in vivo situation, the number of lysosome-like inclusions changed
considerably and cell-cell contacts became loose. After the addition of TSH the
number of apical microvilli, apical granules and coated vesicles rose. The basal 
surface of follicle cells enlarged due to the formation of processes or ridges
and invaginations. Mitosis could be observed. These findings show that, using the
Trowell culture technique, thyroid tissue can be grown for up to 4 weeks without 
showing distinct changes in its morphology. Its responsiveness to the application
of TSH is maintained in vitro. Hence, this technique is suitable also for
long-term endocrinological, pharmacological and toxicological investigations.


PMID: 8574010  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

