

3869. Histol Histopathol. 1995 Oct;10(4):889-905.

The thyroid gland of Callithrix jacchus in organ culture.

Maile S(1), Merker HJ.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Toxicology and Prenatal Pharmacology, Free University of Berlin, 
Germany.

Thyroid glands from 7 marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) of different age groups
(newborn, 2 weeks, 2, 7, 8 and 11 months, and 8 years) were grown as organ
culture according to Trowell at the medium/air interphase for 3 to 30 days. The
morphology of thyroid tissue was well preserved until the end of the culture
period. Necroses were only occasionally seen in connective tissue. In contrast to
the in vivo situation, the number of lysosome-like inclusions changed
considerably and cell-cell contacts became loose. After the addition of TSH the
number of apical microvilli, apical granules and coated vesicles rose. The basal 
surface of follicle cells enlarged due to the formation of processes or ridges
and invaginations. Mitosis could be observed. These findings show that, using the
Trowell culture technique, thyroid tissue can be grown for up to 4 weeks without 
showing distinct changes in its morphology. Its responsiveness to the application
of TSH is maintained in vitro. Hence, this technique is suitable also for
long-term endocrinological, pharmacological and toxicological investigations.


PMID: 8574010  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3870. Biol Reprod. 1995 Oct;53(4):834-9.

Patterns of relaxin and steroids in the reproductive cycle of the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus): effects of prostaglandin F2 alpha on relaxin and
progesterone secretion during pregnancy.

Steinetz BG(1), Randolph C, Mahoney CJ.

Author information: 
(1)New York University Medical Center Laboratory for Experimental Medicine and
Surgery in Primates (LEMSIP), Tuxedo, New York 10987, USA.

We measured the concentrations of relaxin (Rlx), progesterone, and estradiol-17
beta in serum samples obtained twice or three times weekly from marmosets during 
the estrous cycle and pregnancy. The cyclic patterns and concentrations of
progesterone and estradiol-17 beta were similar to those reported by previous
investigators. Rlx was not detected in individual serum samples ( < 0.62-1.25
ng/ml) obtained from nonpregnant marmosets. However, pooling of luteal serum from
all animals permitted assay of much larger volumes of serum (0.4 ml vs. 0.1 ml), 
and a concentration of about 1 ng/ml was detected. Rlx was first detected in
serum in the second or third week of the 21-wk marmoset pregnancy, rose to a peak
during Weeks 10-14, and then declined slowly as the time of parturition
approached. The pattern of Rlx was unlike that observed during pregnancy in Old
World monkeys, chimpanzees, or women, and resembled, instead, that seen in
rodents, carnivores, and equids. Progesterone and estradiol-17 beta likewise
increased throughout pregnancy, and their patterns were similar to those
previously described for marmosets by other investigators. The concentrations of 
the steroids and Rlx in serum of pregnant marmosets was 10-fold or more higher
than those found in Old World monkeys, baboons, chimpanzees, or women.
Spontaneous abortions in two of the marmosets were accompanied by precipitous
falls in serum levels of progesterone, estradiol-17 beta, and Rlx. Following s.c.
injection of the luteolytic agent prostaglandin F2 alpha (PGF2 alpha) into two
marmosets at midpregnancy, serum progesterone and Rlx fell to low levels. These
animals received a progestin, 17 alpha-ethyl-19-nortesterone, to preclude
abortion. Serum progesterone rose again, but serum Rlx remained low for the
duration of pregnancy.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod53.4.834 
PMID: 8547478  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

