

387. Cereb Cortex. 2020 Apr 14;30(4):2658-2672. doi: 10.1093/cercor/bhz267.

Motion Perception in the Common Marmoset.

Cloherty SL(1)(2), Yates JL(1), Graf D(1), DeAngelis GC(1), Mitchell JF(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Brain and Cognitive Sciences, University of Rochester, New York,
NY 14627, USA.
(2)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Melbourne, VIC 3800, Australia.

Visual motion processing is a well-established model system for studying neural
population codes in primates. The common marmoset, a small new world primate,
offers unparalleled opportunities to probe these population codes in key motion
processing areas, such as cortical areas MT and MST, because these areas are
accessible for imaging and recording at the cortical surface. However, little is 
currently known about the perceptual abilities of the marmoset. Here, we
introduce a paradigm for studying motion perception in the marmoset and compare
their psychophysical performance with human observers. We trained two marmosets
to perform a motion estimation task in which they provided an analog report of
their perceived direction of motion with an eye movement to a ring that
surrounded the motion stimulus. Marmosets and humans exhibited similar trade-offs
in speed versus accuracy: errors were larger and reaction times were longer as
the strength of the motion signal was reduced. Reverse correlation on the
temporal fluctuations in motion direction revealed that both species exhibited
short integration windows; however, marmosets had substantially less nondecision 
time than humans. Our results provide the first quantification of motion
perception in the marmoset and demonstrate several advantages to using analog
estimation tasks.

© The Author(s) 2019. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. 
For permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhz267 
PMCID: PMC7174995
PMID: 31828299  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


388. Front Neuroanat. 2019 Nov 27;13:96. doi: 10.3389/fnana.2019.00096. eCollection
2019.

Internal Subdivisions of the Marmoset Claustrum Complex: Identification by
Myeloarchitectural Features and High Field Strength Imaging.

Pham X(1), Wright DK(2)(3), Atapour N(4)(5), Chan JM(4)(5), Watkins KJ(3), Worthy
KH(4), Rosa M(4)(5), Reichelt A(3)(6), Reser DH(4)(7).

Author information: 
(1)Alfred Health, Melbourne, VIC, Australia.
(2)Department of Neuroscience, Central Clinical School, Monash University,
Melbourne, VIC, Australia.
(3)The Florey Institute of Neuroscience and Mental Health, Parkville, VIC,
Australia.
(4)Department of Physiology, Biomedicine Discovery Institute, Monash University, 
Clayton, VIC, Australia.
(5)Australian Research Council Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain
Function, Monash University Node, Clayton, VIC, Australia.
(6)Robarts Research Institute, Western University, London, ON, Canada.
(7)Graduate Entry Medicine Program, Monash Rural Health, Churchill, VIC,
Australia.

There has been a surge of interest in the structure and function of the mammalian
claustrum in recent years. However, most anatomical and physiological studies
treat the claustrum as a relatively homogenous structure. Relatively little
attention has been directed toward possible compartmentalization of the claustrum
complex into anatomical subdivisions, and how this compartmentalization is
reflected in claustrum connections with other brain structures. In this study, we
examined the cyto- and myelo-architecture of the claustrum of the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus), to determine whether the claustrum contains internal
anatomical structures or compartments, which could facilitate studies focused on 
understanding its role in brain function. NeuN, Nissl, calbindin, parvalbumin,
and myelin-stained sections from eight adult marmosets were studied using light
microscopy and serial reconstruction to identify potential internal compartments.
Ultra high resolution (9.4T) post-mortem magnetic resonance imaging was employed 
to identify tractographic differences between identified claustrum
subcompartments by diffusion-weighted tractography. Our results indicate that the
classically defined marmoset claustrum includes at least two major subdivisions, 
which correspond to the dorsal endopiriform and insular claustrum nuclei, as
described in other species, and that the dorsal endopiriform nucleus (DEnD)
contains architecturally distinct compartments. Furthermore, the dorsal
subdivision of the DEnD is tractographically distinguishable from the insular
claustrum with respect to cortical connections.

Copyright © 2019 Pham, Wright, Atapour, Chan, Watkins, Worthy, Rosa, Reichelt and
Reser.

DOI: 10.3389/fnana.2019.00096 
PMCID: PMC6890826
PMID: 31827427 

