

3873. J Biol Chem. 1995 Sep 15;270(37):21539-44.

Eosinophil cationic protein and eosinophil-derived neurotoxin. Evolution of novel
function in a primate ribonuclease gene family.

Rosenberg HF(1), Dyer KD.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Host Defenses, NIAID, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda,
Maryland 20892, USA.

Erratum in
    J Biol Chem. 1995 Dec 15;270(50):30234.

Human eosinophil-derived neurotoxin (EDN) and eosinophil cationic protein (ECP)
are members of a unique subfamily of rapidly evolving primate ribonuclease genes 
that emerged via a gene duplication event occurring after the divergence of Old
World from New World monkeys (Rosenberg, H. F., Dyer, K. D., Tiffany, H. L., and 
Gonzalez, M. (1995) Nature Genet. 10, 219-223). In this work, we studied the
activity of the protein encoded by the EDN/ECP homolog of the New World monkey,
Saguinus oedipus (marmoset), a representative of the "ancestral" single
sequences. Although the nucleotide sequence of the single marmoset gene (mEDN)
was equally homologous (82%) to both human genes, the encoded amino acid
sequence, calculated isoelectric point, and immunoreactivity all suggested a
closer relationship with EDN. Furthermore, mEDN (at 0.3-1.0 microM
concentrations) had no measurable anti-staphylococcal activity, suggesting
functional as well as structural similarity to EDN. However, with yeast tRNA as
substrate, mEDN had significantly less ribonuclease activity than EDN; Michaelis 
constants were nearly identical (Km (mEDN) = 0.67 microM; Km (EDN) = 0.70
microM), while turnover numbers differed by a factor of 100 (kcat (mEDN) = 0.91
s-1; kcat (EDN) = 0.64 x 10(-2) s-1). Thus, evolutionary constraints appear to
have promoted two novel functions: increased cationicity/toxicity (ECP) and
enhanced ribonuclease activity (EDN). The latter result is particularly
intriguing, as it suggests a crucial role for ribonuclease activity in the (as
yet to be determined) physiologic function of EDN.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.270.37.21539 
PMID: 7665566  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3874. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 1995 Sep;4(3):331-49.

DNA evidence on the phylogenetic systematics of New World monkeys: support for
the sister-grouping of Cebus and Saimiri from two unlinked nuclear genes.

Harada ML(1), Schneider H, Schneider MP, Sampaio I, Czelusniak J, Goodman M.

Author information: 
(1)Universidade Federal do Para, Departamento de Genetica, Belem, Brazil.

Previous inferences from epsilon-globin gene sequences on cladistic relationships
among the 16 extant genera of Ceboidea (the New World monkeys) were tested by
strength of grouping and bootstrap values for the clades in the most parsimonious
trees found: for this epsilon data set enlarged with additional Cebus and Saimiri
orthologues; for another nuclear DNA sequence data set consisting of IRBP
(interstitial retinol-binding protein gene) intron 1 orthologues; and for
tandemly combined epsilon and IRBP sequences. Different ceboid species of the
same genus always grouped strongly together as demonstrated by results on Cebus
(capuchin monkeys), Saimiri (squirrel monkeys), Callicebus (titi monkeys), Aotus 
(night monkeys), Ateles (spider monkeys), and Alouatta (howler monkeys). Other
strong groupings that could be represented as monophyletic taxa in a cladistic
classification were: Cebuella (pygmy marmoset) and Callithrix (marmoset) into
subtribe Callitrichina; Callitrichina, Callimico (Goeldi's monkey),
Leontopithecus (lion tamarin), and Saguinus (tamarin) into subfamily
Callitrichinae; Callitrichinae, Aotus, Cebus, and Saimiri into family Cebidae;
Cacajao (uakari monkey) and Chiropotes (saki) into subtribe Chiropotina;
Chiropotina and Pithecia (bearded saki) into tribe Pitheciini; Pitheciini and
Callicebus into subfamily Pitheciinae; Brachyteles (woolly spider monkey),
Lagothrix (woolly monkey), and Ateles into tribe Atelini; and Atelini and
Alouatta into subfamily Atelinae. In addition the epsilon and IRBP results
congruently grouped (but at lesser strengths) Brachyteles and Lagothrix into
subtribe Brachytelina within Atelini, and also Cebus and Saimiri into subfamily
Cebinae within Cebidae. Because the IRBP results weakly grouped Pitheciinae with 
Cebidae, whereas the epsilon results weakly grouped Pitheciinae with Atelinae,
the present evidence is best represented in an interim cladistic classification
of ceboids by dividing the superfamily Ceboidea into three families: Atelidae,
Pitheciidae, and Cebidae.

DOI: 10.1006/mpev.1995.1029 
PMID: 8845968  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

