

3874. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 1995 Sep;4(3):331-49.

DNA evidence on the phylogenetic systematics of New World monkeys: support for
the sister-grouping of Cebus and Saimiri from two unlinked nuclear genes.

Harada ML(1), Schneider H, Schneider MP, Sampaio I, Czelusniak J, Goodman M.

Author information: 
(1)Universidade Federal do Para, Departamento de Genetica, Belem, Brazil.

Previous inferences from epsilon-globin gene sequences on cladistic relationships
among the 16 extant genera of Ceboidea (the New World monkeys) were tested by
strength of grouping and bootstrap values for the clades in the most parsimonious
trees found: for this epsilon data set enlarged with additional Cebus and Saimiri
orthologues; for another nuclear DNA sequence data set consisting of IRBP
(interstitial retinol-binding protein gene) intron 1 orthologues; and for
tandemly combined epsilon and IRBP sequences. Different ceboid species of the
same genus always grouped strongly together as demonstrated by results on Cebus
(capuchin monkeys), Saimiri (squirrel monkeys), Callicebus (titi monkeys), Aotus 
(night monkeys), Ateles (spider monkeys), and Alouatta (howler monkeys). Other
strong groupings that could be represented as monophyletic taxa in a cladistic
classification were: Cebuella (pygmy marmoset) and Callithrix (marmoset) into
subtribe Callitrichina; Callitrichina, Callimico (Goeldi's monkey),
Leontopithecus (lion tamarin), and Saguinus (tamarin) into subfamily
Callitrichinae; Callitrichinae, Aotus, Cebus, and Saimiri into family Cebidae;
Cacajao (uakari monkey) and Chiropotes (saki) into subtribe Chiropotina;
Chiropotina and Pithecia (bearded saki) into tribe Pitheciini; Pitheciini and
Callicebus into subfamily Pitheciinae; Brachyteles (woolly spider monkey),
Lagothrix (woolly monkey), and Ateles into tribe Atelini; and Atelini and
Alouatta into subfamily Atelinae. In addition the epsilon and IRBP results
congruently grouped (but at lesser strengths) Brachyteles and Lagothrix into
subtribe Brachytelina within Atelini, and also Cebus and Saimiri into subfamily
Cebinae within Cebidae. Because the IRBP results weakly grouped Pitheciinae with 
Cebidae, whereas the epsilon results weakly grouped Pitheciinae with Atelinae,
the present evidence is best represented in an interim cladistic classification
of ceboids by dividing the superfamily Ceboidea into three families: Atelidae,
Pitheciidae, and Cebidae.

DOI: 10.1006/mpev.1995.1029 
PMID: 8845968  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3875. Bull Assoc Anat (Nancy). 1995 Sep;79(246):21-4.

The weight of the heart in Callithrix Erxleben, 1777.

de Freitas Burity CH(1), Mandarim-de-Lacerda CA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, State University of Rio de Janeiro (UERJ), Brazil.

The allometric relationship between the weight of the heart and the body
measurements was analyzed in 31 primates of genus Callithrix (C. jacchus and C.
penicillata). The data were analyzed after logarithmic transformation using the
model: Ln Y = Ln a + (b) Ln X. We compared with the t-test the slopes of the
males and females and the slopes of the C. Jacchus and C. penicillata. Positive
allometry was found to the weight of the heart in relation to the body weight
(except to females of C. penicillata = isometry) and to sitting height in females
of C. jacchus and males of C. penicillata. The relationship of the weight of the 
heart with the sitting height was isometric in males of C. jacchus and negative
in females of C. penicillata. We cannot reject the null hypothesis analyzing the 
differences between the slopes of males and females. Therefore, in these two
species of Callithrix we accept the concept of monomorphism.


PMID: 8541606  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

