

3875. Bull Assoc Anat (Nancy). 1995 Sep;79(246):21-4.

The weight of the heart in Callithrix Erxleben, 1777.

de Freitas Burity CH(1), Mandarim-de-Lacerda CA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, State University of Rio de Janeiro (UERJ), Brazil.

The allometric relationship between the weight of the heart and the body
measurements was analyzed in 31 primates of genus Callithrix (C. jacchus and C.
penicillata). The data were analyzed after logarithmic transformation using the
model: Ln Y = Ln a + (b) Ln X. We compared with the t-test the slopes of the
males and females and the slopes of the C. Jacchus and C. penicillata. Positive
allometry was found to the weight of the heart in relation to the body weight
(except to females of C. penicillata = isometry) and to sitting height in females
of C. jacchus and males of C. penicillata. The relationship of the weight of the 
heart with the sitting height was isometric in males of C. jacchus and negative
in females of C. penicillata. We cannot reject the null hypothesis analyzing the 
differences between the slopes of males and females. Therefore, in these two
species of Callithrix we accept the concept of monomorphism.


PMID: 8541606  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3876. Hum Reprod. 1995 Sep;10(9):2334-8.

Follicular development in cryopreserved marmoset ovarian tissue after
transplantation.

Candy CJ(1), Wood MJ, Whittingham DG.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council Experimental Embryology and Teratology Unit, St
George's Hospital Medical School, London, UK.

Pieces of marmoset ovary were frozen by slow cooling in 1.5 M dimethylsulphoxide.
The follicles in fresh and frozen tissue were counted and examined for
morphological appearance in stained serial sections. The proportion of normal
follicles was similar in fresh tissue and frozen tissue examined immediately
after thawing. Follicles at all stages of folliculogenesis up to the small antral
stage survived freezing and thawing. Fresh and frozen tissue was transplanted
underneath the kidney capsules of ovariectomized immunodeficient mice. The
establishment of grafts was similar, and oestrogenic activity (cornification of
the vaginal epithelium) was observed in the recipients 20 and 16 days after
transplantation of fresh and frozen grafts respectively. The total number of
follicles and the proportion of normal follicles were similar in fresh and frozen
grafts. Grafts of frozen tissue recovered between 7 and 15 days after transfer
contained follicles up to the small antral stage of development. Grafts recovered
between 21 and 32 days contained follicles at all stages of folliculogenesis,
including large antral follicles (1-2 mm diameter). Our results suggest that
freezing and thawing do not substantially damage marmoset ovarian tissue, and the
cryopreserved tissue retains its ability to support the development of large
antral follicles.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.humrep.a136295 
PMID: 8530662  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

