

3879. Cell Tissue Res. 1995 Sep;281(3):493-9.

Species-independent expression of nitric oxide synthase in the sarcolemma region 
of visceral and somatic striated muscle fibers.

Grozdanovic Z(1), Nakos G, Dahrmann G, Mayer B, Gossrau R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, Free University of Berlin, Germany.

The expression and distribution of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) was studied by use
of the newly designed specific histochemical NADPH diaphorase staining method and
the indirect immunofluorescence technique employing an antiserum to brain NOS in 
visceral and somatic striated muscles of several mammalian species. Histochemical
activity and immunoreactivity were located in the sarcolemma region of type I and
II fibers of all muscles investigated. Visceral muscles were more strongly
stained than somatic muscles. Furthermore, type II fibers, identified by staining
of myosin adenosine triphosphatase activity after pre-incubation at alkaline pH, 
were more intensely labeled than type I fibers. In addition, NOS activity was
detected in the area of the sarcolemma of intrafusal fibers. No obvious
differences between species were observed. It was concluded that NOS of striated 
muscles probably makes up the richest and most important nitric oxide source in
mammals.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00417866 
PMID: 7553769  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3880. Brain Res Mol Brain Res. 1995 Sep;32(2):297-307.

L-DOPA reverses altered gene expression of substance P but not enkephalin in the 
caudate-putamen of common marmosets treated with MPTP.

Jolkkonen J(1), Jenner P, Marsden CD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Kuopio, Finland.

The mRNA levels encoding neuropeptides were measured in the caudate nucleus,
putamen and nucleus accumbens of common marmosets exposed to
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine pyridine (MPTP). Motor deficits
induced by MPTP treatment were characterized by akinesia, postural abnormalities 
and rigidity. Seven days after MPTP treatment, there was a marked increase in
levels of enkephalin mRNA in the caudate nucleus and putamen. In contrast, the
hybridization signal for substance P mRNA was reduced. Alterations in the mRNA
encoding neuropeptides were similar but less extensive in marmosets at 18-50
months following MPTP treatment. No significant changes in enkephalin or
substance P mRNA in the nucleus accumbens were observed at either time. Treatment
with L-DOPA plus carbidopa for 4 weeks reversed MPTP-induce motor deficits and
other behavioural abnormalities. The decrease in substance P mRNA in the striatum
of MPTP-treated animals was reversed by L-DOPA treatment and reached levels above
those found in normal animals. In contrast, the increase in enkephalin mRNA in
marmosets treated with MPTP was not altered by L-DOPA treatment. In the nucleus
accumbens the levels of peptide mRNA were not affected by L-DOPA treatment. Loss 
of nigral dopamine cells in a primate species causes opposing alterations in the 
expression of enkephalin and substance P mRNA in the caudate nucleus and putamen.
No changes were observed in the nucleus accumbens, which reflects the resistance 
of the mesolimbic neurons to MPTP toxicity. While the decrease in substance P
mRNA was reversed by L-DOPA treatment, the increase in enkephalin mRNA was not.
This may partly indicate the greater effect of L-DOPA on the direct GABA pathway 
compared to the indirect output pathway from the striatum.

DOI: 10.1016/0169-328x(95)00084-6 
PMID: 7500841  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

