

388. Front Neuroanat. 2019 Nov 27;13:96. doi: 10.3389/fnana.2019.00096. eCollection
2019.

Internal Subdivisions of the Marmoset Claustrum Complex: Identification by
Myeloarchitectural Features and High Field Strength Imaging.

Pham X(1), Wright DK(2)(3), Atapour N(4)(5), Chan JM(4)(5), Watkins KJ(3), Worthy
KH(4), Rosa M(4)(5), Reichelt A(3)(6), Reser DH(4)(7).

Author information: 
(1)Alfred Health, Melbourne, VIC, Australia.
(2)Department of Neuroscience, Central Clinical School, Monash University,
Melbourne, VIC, Australia.
(3)The Florey Institute of Neuroscience and Mental Health, Parkville, VIC,
Australia.
(4)Department of Physiology, Biomedicine Discovery Institute, Monash University, 
Clayton, VIC, Australia.
(5)Australian Research Council Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain
Function, Monash University Node, Clayton, VIC, Australia.
(6)Robarts Research Institute, Western University, London, ON, Canada.
(7)Graduate Entry Medicine Program, Monash Rural Health, Churchill, VIC,
Australia.

There has been a surge of interest in the structure and function of the mammalian
claustrum in recent years. However, most anatomical and physiological studies
treat the claustrum as a relatively homogenous structure. Relatively little
attention has been directed toward possible compartmentalization of the claustrum
complex into anatomical subdivisions, and how this compartmentalization is
reflected in claustrum connections with other brain structures. In this study, we
examined the cyto- and myelo-architecture of the claustrum of the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus), to determine whether the claustrum contains internal
anatomical structures or compartments, which could facilitate studies focused on 
understanding its role in brain function. NeuN, Nissl, calbindin, parvalbumin,
and myelin-stained sections from eight adult marmosets were studied using light
microscopy and serial reconstruction to identify potential internal compartments.
Ultra high resolution (9.4T) post-mortem magnetic resonance imaging was employed 
to identify tractographic differences between identified claustrum
subcompartments by diffusion-weighted tractography. Our results indicate that the
classically defined marmoset claustrum includes at least two major subdivisions, 
which correspond to the dorsal endopiriform and insular claustrum nuclei, as
described in other species, and that the dorsal endopiriform nucleus (DEnD)
contains architecturally distinct compartments. Furthermore, the dorsal
subdivision of the DEnD is tractographically distinguishable from the insular
claustrum with respect to cortical connections.

Copyright © 2019 Pham, Wright, Atapour, Chan, Watkins, Worthy, Rosa, Reichelt and
Reser.

DOI: 10.3389/fnana.2019.00096 
PMCID: PMC6890826
PMID: 31827427 


389. PLoS Biol. 2019 Dec 9;17(12):e3000546. doi: 10.1371/journal.pbio.3000546.
eCollection 2019 Dec.

Spatial encoding in primate hippocampus during free navigation.

Courellis HS(1)(2), Nummela SU(1), Metke M(1)(3), Diehl GW(3), Bussell R(4),
Cauwenberghs G(2)(3), Miller CT(1)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Cortical Systems and Behavior Laboratory, University of California, San Diego,
San Diego, California, United States of America.
(2)Department of Bioengineering, University of California, San Diego, San Diego, 
California, United States of America.
(3)Neurosciences Graduate Program, University of California, San Diego, San
Diego, United States of America.
(4)Center for Functional MRI, University of California, San Diego, San Diego,
United States of America.

The hippocampus comprises two neural signals-place cells and θ oscillations-that 
contribute to facets of spatial navigation. Although their complementary
relationship has been well established in rodents, their respective contributions
in the primate brain during free navigation remains unclear. Here, we recorded
neural activity in the hippocampus of freely moving marmosets as they naturally
explored a spatial environment to more explicitly investigate this issue. We
report place cells in marmoset hippocampus during free navigation that exhibit
remarkable parallels to analogous neurons in other mammalian species. Although θ 
oscillations were prevalent in the marmoset hippocampus, the patterns of activity
were notably different than in other taxa. This local field potential oscillation
occurred in short bouts (approximately .4 s)-rather than continuously-and was
neither significantly modulated by locomotion nor consistently coupled to
place-cell activity. These findings suggest that the relationship between
place-cell activity and θ oscillations in primate hippocampus during free
navigation differs substantially from rodents and paint an intriguing comparative
picture regarding the neural basis of spatial navigation across mammals.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pbio.3000546 
PMCID: PMC6922474
PMID: 31815940  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.

