

3880. Brain Res Mol Brain Res. 1995 Sep;32(2):297-307.

L-DOPA reverses altered gene expression of substance P but not enkephalin in the 
caudate-putamen of common marmosets treated with MPTP.

Jolkkonen J(1), Jenner P, Marsden CD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Kuopio, Finland.

The mRNA levels encoding neuropeptides were measured in the caudate nucleus,
putamen and nucleus accumbens of common marmosets exposed to
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine pyridine (MPTP). Motor deficits
induced by MPTP treatment were characterized by akinesia, postural abnormalities 
and rigidity. Seven days after MPTP treatment, there was a marked increase in
levels of enkephalin mRNA in the caudate nucleus and putamen. In contrast, the
hybridization signal for substance P mRNA was reduced. Alterations in the mRNA
encoding neuropeptides were similar but less extensive in marmosets at 18-50
months following MPTP treatment. No significant changes in enkephalin or
substance P mRNA in the nucleus accumbens were observed at either time. Treatment
with L-DOPA plus carbidopa for 4 weeks reversed MPTP-induce motor deficits and
other behavioural abnormalities. The decrease in substance P mRNA in the striatum
of MPTP-treated animals was reversed by L-DOPA treatment and reached levels above
those found in normal animals. In contrast, the increase in enkephalin mRNA in
marmosets treated with MPTP was not altered by L-DOPA treatment. In the nucleus
accumbens the levels of peptide mRNA were not affected by L-DOPA treatment. Loss 
of nigral dopamine cells in a primate species causes opposing alterations in the 
expression of enkephalin and substance P mRNA in the caudate nucleus and putamen.
No changes were observed in the nucleus accumbens, which reflects the resistance 
of the mesolimbic neurons to MPTP toxicity. While the decrease in substance P
mRNA was reversed by L-DOPA treatment, the increase in enkephalin mRNA was not.
This may partly indicate the greater effect of L-DOPA on the direct GABA pathway 
compared to the indirect output pathway from the striatum.

DOI: 10.1016/0169-328x(95)00084-6 
PMID: 7500841  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3881. J Comp Neurol. 1995 Aug 21;359(2):272-99.

Visual areas in the dorsal and medial extrastriate cortices of the marmoset.

Rosa MG(1), Schmid LM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, University of Queensland, Brisbane,
Australia.

To define the number and limits of the visual areas in the primate extrastriate
cortex, the visuotopy of the dorsal convexity and medial wall was studied by
electrophysiological recordings in five marmosets anaesthetised with sufentanil
and nitrous oxide and paralysed with pancuronium bromide. We identified five
visuotopic representations in and around the densely myelinated zone between
visual area 2 (V2) and the posterior parietal cortex. Most of the densely
myelinated zone is formed by the homologue of the owl monkey's dorsomedial area
(DM); thus, we also termed this area DM in the marmoset. Within DM, the lower
quadrant representation is continuous, with central vision represented laterally,
peripheral vision medially, the horizontal meridian caudally, and the vertical
meridian rostrally. In contrast, the upper quadrant representation is split, with
the central portion represented at the lateral edge of DM on the dorsal surface, 
and the periphery along the midline. Two other visual field representations,
corresponding to the dorsointermediate area (DI) and to a new subdivision termed 
the dorsoanterior area (DA), are also densely myelinated but can be distinguished
from DM based on the separation of the bands of Baillarger and visual topography.
In addition, a homologue of the medial visual area (M) was identified. Our
results reveal a highly complex visuotopy in primate cortex, with local
discontinuities in representation and borders between areas that are often not
coincident with either the horizontal or the vertical meridian. The topography of
the dorsal extrastriate cortex in the marmoset strongly suggests that both visual
area 3 (V3) and the parietooccipital area (PO) of other primates are portions of 
a single visuotopic representation, DM, and calls into question the existence of 
visual areas with partial or quadrantic representations of the visual field.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.903590207 
PMID: 7499529  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

