

3889. Acta Histochem. 1995 Jul;97(3):321-31.

Demonstration of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) in marmosets by NADPH diaphorase
(NADPH-d) histochemistry and NOS immunoreactivity.

Grozdanovic Z(1), Nakos G, Christova T, Nikolova Z, Mayer B, Gossrau R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, Free University of Berlin, Germany.

Since species interdiversity often prevents the extrapolation of laboratory
rodent data to man and similar problems may exist for nitric oxide synthase
(NOS), NADPH-d activity and immunohistochemistry of NOS were investigated in the 
New World monkey Callithrix jacchus (marmoset), which has been shown to be close 
to the human situation in many respects. Using the NADPHd reaction with
beta-NADPH and nitroblue tetrazolium (NBT) on acetone-chloroform pretreated
cryosections, NBT formazan was found in many neural and non-neural (e.g. diverse 
epithelia, striated muscle fibers, vascular endothelium) cells in numerous
tissues and organs. Prefixation with formaldehyde lowered the number of NADPH-d
active sites and the amount of formazan with the exception of neuronal NADPH-d as
did incubation of fresh or acetone-chloroform-pretreated sections for NADPH-d in 
the presence of 0.5% formaldehyde. When 1% formaldehyde or 0.5 mM permanganate
were used significant amounts of formazan appeared only in central and peripheral
neurons, vasal endothelial cells, small intestinal enterocytes, plasma membrane
region of striated muscle fibers as well as arteriolar cells in the kidney;
except for enterocytes, these observations were confirmed by
NOS-immunohistochemistry which revealed in addition reactive cells in the thymus 
and intestinal lamina propria.

DOI: 10.1016/S0065-1281(11)80197-2 
PMID: 8525791  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3890. Acta Histochem. 1995 Jul;97(3):313-20.

Alpha-NADPH appears to be primarily oxidized by the NADPH-diaphorase activity of 
nitric oxide synthase (NOS).

Grozdanovic Z(1), Gossrau R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, Free University of Berlin, Germany.

Biochemical studies have shown that the NADPH-diaphorase (NADPH-d) activity of
nitric oxide synthase (NOS) represents only a part of the total cellular
diaphorase pool. Histochemically, NADPH-d activity can be demonstrated in cells
expressing no constitutive NOS. Therefore, attempts aimed to improve the
specificity of the NADPH-d reaction are currently being undertaken. In this
study, the effect of replacing the natural and common diaphorase substrate
beta-NADPH with the artificial stereoisomer alpha-NADPH on the extent of NADPH-d 
staining was examined. When beta-NADPH served as the substrate, discrete
populations of central and peripheral neurons as well as numerous non-neural
cells in many organs of common laboratory rodents (mouse, rat, gerbil, hamster,
guinea pig) and marmosets were found to generate formazan. Substitution of
alpha-NADPH for beta-NADPH resulted in reduced staining intensity of nerve cells 
and muscle fibers. Furthermore, alpha-NADPH-d staining of macula densa cells,
enterocytes and granulocytes varied according to the species examined. No
reaction was observed in most other cells which stained positively for
beta-NADPH-d activity. Examination of adjacent sections, incubated for the
demonstration of NOS-immunoreactivity, revealed that alpha-NADPH-d activity and
NOS immunostaining are strictly colocalized in neurons, striated muscle fibers
and, species-dependently, in macula densa cells. It can thus be concluded that,
with the exception of gut granulocytes, alpha-NADPH is primarily metabolized by
the reductase activity of NOS.

DOI: 10.1016/s0065-1281(11)80196-0 
PMID: 8525790  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

