

3892. Ann Anat. 1995 Jul;177(5):431-8.

Visualization of hydrogen peroxide (H2O2)-production from histamine.

Nakos G(1), Gossrau R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, Free University of Berlin, Germany.

The cellular and intracellular metabolization sites of the tissue hormone and
paracrine compound histamine as a source for the indirect and potentially toxic
or physiological mediator molecule H2O2 are not yet known. Therefore, in the
present study, histamine was used as the substrate in a
cerium-diaminobenzidine-H2O2-Co procedure to visualize for the first time the
oxidative deamination and H2O2-production sites of this amine in various
laboratory animals. Diamine oxidase (DAOX) was shown to be the responsible
enzyme. With the exception of marmosets, all species could deaminate histamine
oxidatively and form H2O2. In most species, H2O2 was produced by DAOX from
histamine in small intestinal enterocytes; in rats H2O2 was generated in all
vascular and non-vascular smooth muscle cells; in guinea-pigs only smooth muscle 
cells in the digestive tract and uterus and in addition the cardiac and gastric
capillary endothelium and hepatic sinusoidal endothelium produced H2O2.
Furthermore, in some species H2O2 was generated by DAOX with histamine as the
substrate in certain renal, adrenal and splenic cell types. While H2O2-production
in enterocytes may derive from luminal-borne histamine, i.e., from histamine of
foreign origin, the formation of H2O2 in the other cells suggests endogenous
(mast cell, basophilborne) histamine as the substrate and H2O2 source.

DOI: 10.1016/S0940-9602(11)80150-0 
PMID: 7645739  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3893. Nihon Yakurigaku Zasshi. 1995 Jul;106(1):11-8.

[Application of the common marmoset to pharmacological studies].

[Article in Japanese]

Nomoto M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Kagoshima University School of Medicine, Japan.

Application of the common marmoset to pharmacological studies was reviewed,
especially employment of the animal as a model of Parkinson's disease were
presented. The common marmoset is one of the New World monkeys with a body weight
of 300-350 g. It is small enough to be easily handled and to be kept as a group
in a room. In the fields of pharmacology, it has been used in studies of plasma
renin activity inhibitors, lipoprotein, memory/learning, obstetrics,
transplantation, toxicology, anxiolytic agents and virology/immunology. We showed
that the common marmoset was a useful animal for studies on Parkinson's disease, 
dopamine metabolism by microdialysis and nausea/vomiting. The common marmoset was
sensitive to 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) and developed
permanent parkinsonism after MPTP injection. MPTP-treated common marmosets showed
tremor and akinesia, and it remarkably responded to antiparkinsonian agents. A
dopamine D1 agonist, which caused stereotyped behavior in rats, did not reverse
parkinsonism in humans. We showed this agent did not have any antiparkinsonian
effects on MPTP-treated common marmosets. MAO has subtypes, A and B, that have
differences of distribution in different species. MAO type B inhibitors were
applied for the treatment of Parkinson's disease. MAO subtype B inhibitors do not
cause any change in behavior or extracellular concentration of dopamine or its
metabolites in rodents. In MPTP-treated common marmosets, however, administration
of a MAO type B inhibitor increased the antiparkinsonian effects of levodopa and 
decreased dopamine metabolites. The common marmoset is a suitable animal for the 
study of MAO type B inhibitors.

DOI: 10.1254/fpj.106.11 
PMID: 7590519  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

