

3893. Nihon Yakurigaku Zasshi. 1995 Jul;106(1):11-8.

[Application of the common marmoset to pharmacological studies].

[Article in Japanese]

Nomoto M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Kagoshima University School of Medicine, Japan.

Application of the common marmoset to pharmacological studies was reviewed,
especially employment of the animal as a model of Parkinson's disease were
presented. The common marmoset is one of the New World monkeys with a body weight
of 300-350 g. It is small enough to be easily handled and to be kept as a group
in a room. In the fields of pharmacology, it has been used in studies of plasma
renin activity inhibitors, lipoprotein, memory/learning, obstetrics,
transplantation, toxicology, anxiolytic agents and virology/immunology. We showed
that the common marmoset was a useful animal for studies on Parkinson's disease, 
dopamine metabolism by microdialysis and nausea/vomiting. The common marmoset was
sensitive to 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) and developed
permanent parkinsonism after MPTP injection. MPTP-treated common marmosets showed
tremor and akinesia, and it remarkably responded to antiparkinsonian agents. A
dopamine D1 agonist, which caused stereotyped behavior in rats, did not reverse
parkinsonism in humans. We showed this agent did not have any antiparkinsonian
effects on MPTP-treated common marmosets. MAO has subtypes, A and B, that have
differences of distribution in different species. MAO type B inhibitors were
applied for the treatment of Parkinson's disease. MAO subtype B inhibitors do not
cause any change in behavior or extracellular concentration of dopamine or its
metabolites in rodents. In MPTP-treated common marmosets, however, administration
of a MAO type B inhibitor increased the antiparkinsonian effects of levodopa and 
decreased dopamine metabolites. The common marmoset is a suitable animal for the 
study of MAO type B inhibitors.

DOI: 10.1254/fpj.106.11 
PMID: 7590519  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3894. Lab Anim. 1995 Jul;29(3):258-61.

Measurement of blood pressure and heart rate by telemetry in conscious
unrestrained marmosets.

Schnell CR(1), Wood JM.

Author information: 
(1)Cardiovascular Research Department, Ciba-Geigy, Basel, Switzerland.

A system is described for the continuous measurement of blood pressure, heart
rate and motor activity by telemetry in conscious marmosets freely moving in
their home cages. Consistent diurnal variations in these parameters were observed
under standard conditions. However these parameters were sensitive to changes in 
the environment. Blood pressure values were similar to those measured by
non-telemetric methods in conscious restrained marmosets while heart rate values 
were significantly lower.

DOI: 10.1258/002367795781088180 
PMID: 7564208  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

