

390. Genes Genet Syst. 2020 Jan 30;94(6):301-306. doi: 10.1266/ggs.19-00042. Epub 2019
Dec 7.

The CENP-B box, a nucleotide motif involved in centromere formation, has multiple
origins in New World monkeys.

Thongchum R(1)(2), Nishihara H(3), Srikulnath K(2)(4), Hirai H(1), Koga A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Primate Research Institute, Kyoto University.
(2)Faculty of Science, Kasetsart University.
(3)Department of Life Science and Technology, Tokyo Institute of Technology.
(4)National Primate Research Center of Thailand, Chulalongkorn University.

Centromere protein B (CENP-B), a protein participating in centromere formation,
binds to centromere satellite DNA by recognizing a 17-bp motif called the CENP-B 
box. This motif is found in hominids (humans and great apes) at an identical
location in repeat units of their centromere satellite DNA. We have recently
reported that the CENP-B box exists at diverse locations in three New World
monkey species (marmoset, squirrel monkey and tamarin). However, the evolutionary
origin of the CENP-B box in these species was not determined. It could have been 
present in a common ancestor, or emerged multiple times in different lineages.
Here we present results of a phylogenetic analysis of centromere satellite DNA
that support the multiple emergence hypothesis. Repeat units almost invariably
formed monophyletic groups in each species and the CENP-B box location was unique
for each species. The CENP-B box is not essential for the immediate survival of
its host organism. On the other hand, it is known to be required for de novo
centromere assembly. Our results suggest that the CENP-B box confers a long-term 
selective advantage. For example, it may play a pivotal role when a centromere is
accidentally lost or impaired.

DOI: 10.1266/ggs.19-00042 
PMID: 31813924  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


391. J Comp Neurol. 2020 Jun;528(8):1307-1320. doi: 10.1002/cne.24814. Epub 2019 Dec
10.

Cytoarchitecture and myeloarchitecture of the entorhinal cortex of the common
marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus).

de Góis Morais PLA(1)(2), de Lima RRM(1), Ríos-Flórez JA(1), Melo TFV(1), Clascá 
F(3), de Souza Cavalcante J(1), Guzen FP(2), Cavalcanti JRLP(2), Nascimento
Junior ES(1).

Author information: 
(1)Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, Brazil.
(2)Universidade Estadual do Rio Grande do Norte, Mossoro, Brazil.
(3)Universidad Autónoma de Madrid, Madrid, Spain.

The entorhinal cortex (EC) is associated with impaired cognitive function such as
in the case of Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease and Huntington's disease.
The present study provides a detailed analysis of the cytoarchitectural and
myeloarchitectural organization of the EC in the common marmoset Callithrix
jacchus. Data were collected using Nissl and fiber stained preparations,
supplemented with acetylcholinesterase and parvalbumin immunohistochemistry. The 
EC layers and subfields in the marmoset seem to be architectonically similar to
those that have been proposed in nonhuman primates and humans to date; however,
slight differences could be revealed using the present techniques. Throughout its
rostrocaudal length, the entorhinal cortex presents a clear six-layered pattern. 
The entorhinal cortex is divided into six fields, named mainly in accordance to
their rostrocaudal and mediolateral positions. At rostral levels, the neurons
tend to be organized in patches that are surrounded by large, thick, radially
oriented bundles of fibers, and the deep layers are poorly developed. At caudal
levels, the divisions are more laminated in appearance. AChE staining at the
borders of adjacent fields are consistent with the changes in layering revealed
in Nissl-stained sections, of which the lateral regions of the EC display denser 
AChE staining than that of the medial banks. PV immunoreactivity was found in the
labeled somata, dendrites, and axons in all layers and subdivisions.
Additionally, we distinguished three subtypes of PV-immunoreactive neurons:
multipolar, bipolar and spherical-shaped neurons, based on the shape of the
somata and the disposition of the dendrites.

© 2019 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.24814 
PMID: 31765000  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

