

3908. J Morphol. 1995 Jun;224(3):351-68.

Comparative and functional myology of the prehensile tail in New World monkeys.

Lemelin P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Program in Anthropological Sciences, State University of New York at Stony
Brook 11794-4364, USA.

The caudal myology of prehensile-tailed monkeys (Cebus apella, Alouatta palliata,
Alouatta seniculus, Lagothrix lagotricha, and Ateles paniscus) and
nonprehensile-tailed primates (Eulemur fulvus, Aotus trivirgatus, Callithrix
jacchus, Pithecia pithecia, Saimiri sciureus, Macaca fascicularis, and
Cercopithecus aethiops) was examined and compared in order to identify muscular
differences that correlate with osteological features diagnostic of tail
prehensility. In addition, electrophysiological stimulation was carried out on
different segments of the intertransversarii caudae muscle of an adult spider
monkey (Ateles geoffroyi) to assess their action on the prehensile tail. Several 
important muscular differences characterize the prehensile tail of New World
monkeys compared to the nonprehensile tail of other primates. In atelines and
Cebus, the mass of extensor caudae lateralis and flexor caudae longus muscles is 
more uniform along the tail, and their long tendons cross a small number of
vertebrae before insertion. Also, prehensile-tailed monkeys, especially atelines,
are characterized by well-developed flexor and intertransversarii caudae muscles 
compared to nonprehensile-tailed primates. Finally, Ateles possesses a bulkier
abductor caudae medialis and a more cranial origin for the first segment of
intertransversarii caudae than do other prehensile-tailed platyrrhines. These
myological differences between nonprehensile-tailed and prehensile-tailed
primates, and among prehensile-tailed monkeys, agree with published osteological 
and behavioral data. Caudal myological similarities and differences found in
Cebus and atelines, combined with tail-use data from the literature, support the 
hypothesis that prehensile tails evolved in parallel in Cebus and atelines.

DOI: 10.1002/jmor.1052240308 
PMID: 7595958  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3909. Placenta. 1995 Jun;16(4):335-46.

Differential distribution of mRNA for the alpha- and beta-subunits of chorionic
gonadotrophin in the implantation stage blastocyst of the marmoset monkey.

Lopata A(1), Berka J, Simula A, Norman R, Otani T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, University of Melbourne, Royal
Women's Hospital, Carlton, Victoria.

Erratum in
    Placenta 1995 Sep;16(6):567.

We studied the expression of mRNA encoding the alpha- and beta-subunits of
marmoset chorionic gonadotrophin (mCG) in implantation stage blastocysts and in a
trophoblastic cell line derived from such blastocysts. In this investigation in
situ hybridization was carried out using digoxygenin-labelled riboprobes to
localize the subunit transcripts. The trophoblastic cell line, known to secrete
bioactive mCG, was used as a positive control. Marmoset uterine embryos were
cultured to hatched blastocysts and following growth on Matrigel or plastic were 
processed for in situ hybridization at developmental stages ranging from 13-15
days post-conception. In serial sections mCG-beta mRNA was detected mainly in
polar trophoblast. The mRNA for mCG-alpha was expressed more uniformly in polar
and mural trophoblast. Transcripts for the beta-subunit were not expressed, or
present as weak signals, in the inner cell mass (ICM) and endoderm. However, low 
levels of mRNA for mCG-alpha were detected in the ICM and visceral endoderm. We
have concluded that mRNA for mCG-beta was primarily localized to patches of
syncytiotrophoblast at the embryonic pole and sparsely distributed in mural
trophoblast, while the transcripts for mCG-alpha were distributed more uniformly 
in differentiating cytotrophoblast and syncytium, and at much lower levels in ICM
and early endoderm.

DOI: 10.1016/0143-4004(95)90091-8 
PMID: 7567796  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

