

3910. Neuroreport. 1995 May 30;6(8):1141-5.

Regional distribution and characterization of nitric oxide synthase activity in
the brain of the common marmoset.

Gerlach M(1), Oehler D, Blum-Degen D, Lange KW, Mayer B, Reichmann H, Riederer P.

Author information: 
(1)Universitäts-Nervenklinik, Abteilung Klinische Neurochemie,
Julius-Maximilians-Universität, Würzburg, Germany.

The distribution of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) within the brain of the common
marmoset, a non-human primate species, was investigated using the
[3H]L-citrulline formation assay and Western blot analysis. No hemispheric
asymmetry of specific NOS activity was shown. The highest levels of NOS were
found in the putamen and caudate nucleus--more than twice those in the cortex and
the cerebellum, the brain regions with the lowest activities. The regional
distribution pattern was similar to that in the ferret brain and contrasted to
that in the mouse and bovine brain. Analysis of NOS catalytic activities in
subcellular fractions revealed marked differences in the subcellular
localization. Neuronal NOS accounted mainly for the measured catalytic activity
in the brain. Differences in the regional distribution pattern of brain NOS
activity among species may be indicative of diversities in the functional role of
nitric oxide and NOS in mammals.

DOI: 10.1097/00001756-199505300-00017 
PMID: 7545017  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3911. Braz J Med Biol Res. 1995 May;28(5):591-5.

Behavior and progesterone levels in Callithrix jacchus females.

Alencar AI(1), Yamamoto ME, Oliveira MS, Lopes FA, Sousa MB, Silva NG.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Fisiologia, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Norte,
Natal, Brasil.

In callitrichids, and especially in the Callithrix and Saguinus genera,
reproductive suppression maintains the breeding exclusivity of dominant females. 
It has been suggested that dominance may be inferred from agonistic behavior of
females. The purpose of this study was to assess the adequacy of behaviors as
indicators of hormonal status in Callithrix jacchus females. Two pairs of twin
females were observed for affiliative, agonistic and sexual behaviors for 20
weeks, in four stages of increasingly potential competition for one male. During 
the same period, blood samples were taken regularly for progesterone
determination by ELISA. The two pairs differed markedly as to behaviors and
hormonal status: pair 1 showed a well established behavioral dominance and only
one ovulating female from the beginning of the observation period; pair 2 showed 
competition for dominance until the last stage of observation, when one of the
females started ovulating. Correlations between behaviors and progesterone levels
showed differences between subordinate and dominant females mostly in pair 2.
Although limited in number of animals studied, these results suggest that there
is a relationship between behavior and hormones in female marmosets, but this
relationship may be useful in the identification of the physiological status of
females only in groups where the dominance is not well established.


PMID: 8555980  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

