

3911. Braz J Med Biol Res. 1995 May;28(5):591-5.

Behavior and progesterone levels in Callithrix jacchus females.

Alencar AI(1), Yamamoto ME, Oliveira MS, Lopes FA, Sousa MB, Silva NG.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Fisiologia, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Norte,
Natal, Brasil.

In callitrichids, and especially in the Callithrix and Saguinus genera,
reproductive suppression maintains the breeding exclusivity of dominant females. 
It has been suggested that dominance may be inferred from agonistic behavior of
females. The purpose of this study was to assess the adequacy of behaviors as
indicators of hormonal status in Callithrix jacchus females. Two pairs of twin
females were observed for affiliative, agonistic and sexual behaviors for 20
weeks, in four stages of increasingly potential competition for one male. During 
the same period, blood samples were taken regularly for progesterone
determination by ELISA. The two pairs differed markedly as to behaviors and
hormonal status: pair 1 showed a well established behavioral dominance and only
one ovulating female from the beginning of the observation period; pair 2 showed 
competition for dominance until the last stage of observation, when one of the
females started ovulating. Correlations between behaviors and progesterone levels
showed differences between subordinate and dominant females mostly in pair 2.
Although limited in number of animals studied, these results suggest that there
is a relationship between behavior and hormones in female marmosets, but this
relationship may be useful in the identification of the physiological status of
females only in groups where the dominance is not well established.


PMID: 8555980  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3912. J Neurosci. 1995 May;15(5 Pt 2):3821-39.

A redefinition of somatosensory areas in the lateral sulcus of macaque monkeys.

Krubitzer L(1), Clarey J, Tweedale R, Elston G, Calford M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, University of Queensland,
Australia.

The present investigation was designed to determine the organization of
somatosensory fields in the lateral sulcus of macaque monkeys using standard
microelectrode recording techniques. Our results provide evidence for two
complete representations of the body surface. We term these fields the second
somatosensory area (SII) and the parietal ventral area (PV) because of their
similarities in position, internal organization, and relationship to anterior
parietal fields, as described for SII and PV in other mammals. Areas SII and PV
are mirror-symmetrical representations of the body surface, sharing a common
boundary at the representations of the digits of the hand and foot, lips, and
mouth. These fields are located adjacent to the face representations of anterior 
parietal fields (areas 3b, 1, and 2), and are bounded ventrally and caudally by
other regions of cortex in which neurons are responsive to somatic or multimodal 
stimulation. The finding of a double representation of the body surface in the
region of cortex traditionally designated as SII may explain conflicting
descriptions of SII organization in macaque monkeys. In addition, the present
study raises some questions regarding the designation of serial processing
pathways in Old World monkeys, by suggesting that fields may have been confused
in studies demonstrating such pathways. We propose that SII and PV are components
of a common plan of organization, and are present in many eutherian mammals.


PMCID: PMC6578217
PMID: 7751949  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

