

3912. J Neurosci. 1995 May;15(5 Pt 2):3821-39.

A redefinition of somatosensory areas in the lateral sulcus of macaque monkeys.

Krubitzer L(1), Clarey J, Tweedale R, Elston G, Calford M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, University of Queensland,
Australia.

The present investigation was designed to determine the organization of
somatosensory fields in the lateral sulcus of macaque monkeys using standard
microelectrode recording techniques. Our results provide evidence for two
complete representations of the body surface. We term these fields the second
somatosensory area (SII) and the parietal ventral area (PV) because of their
similarities in position, internal organization, and relationship to anterior
parietal fields, as described for SII and PV in other mammals. Areas SII and PV
are mirror-symmetrical representations of the body surface, sharing a common
boundary at the representations of the digits of the hand and foot, lips, and
mouth. These fields are located adjacent to the face representations of anterior 
parietal fields (areas 3b, 1, and 2), and are bounded ventrally and caudally by
other regions of cortex in which neurons are responsive to somatic or multimodal 
stimulation. The finding of a double representation of the body surface in the
region of cortex traditionally designated as SII may explain conflicting
descriptions of SII organization in macaque monkeys. In addition, the present
study raises some questions regarding the designation of serial processing
pathways in Old World monkeys, by suggesting that fields may have been confused
in studies demonstrating such pathways. We propose that SII and PV are components
of a common plan of organization, and are present in many eutherian mammals.


PMCID: PMC6578217
PMID: 7751949  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3913. Blood Press. 1995 May;4(3):177-86.

Fish oils modulate blood pressure and vascular contractility in the rat and
vascular contractility in the primate.

Mano MT(1), Bexis S, Abeywardena MY, McMurchie EJ, King RA, Smith RM, Head RJ.

Author information: 
(1)CSIRO Division of Human Nutrition, Adelaide, Australia.

The effect of dietary fish oils on development of hypertension and vascular
response in vitro were studied in rats and a primate. Dietary fish oils (MaxEPA
and an n-3 ethyl ester concentrate of higher EPA and DHA content) were
administered to spontaneously hypertensive (SHR), stroke-prone spontaneously
hypertensive (SHR-SP) and a backcross of SHR and Wistar Kyoto (SHR/WKY) rats from
4-16 weeks of age. Blood pressure was monitored during the feeding period and
vascular responses measured in the aorta and mesenteric vascular bed in vitro.
Depending on the strain of rat used and the composition of the fish oil the
attenuation in blood pressure was 10-26 mmHg. Fish oils attenuated the response
mediated by sympathetic nerve stimulation or intralumenal norepinephrine in the
perfused mesenteric vascular bed preparation from the SHR. This attenuation was
more pronounced for fish oils enriched with eicosapentaenoic acid and
docosahexaenoic acid and was more prominent in the SHR and SHR/WKY backcross than
it was in the SHR-SP. Prostanoid synthesis or nitric oxide modulation of
alpha-adrenoceptor responses were shown not to be involved in the attenuation of 
vascular responses produced by fish oil. The maximum contraction of aortic ring
preparations in response to norepinephrine (NE) was significantly smaller in SHR 
than WKY rats fed olive oil and for SHR rats maintained on fish oils the
contraction was close to WKY olive oil values. Evidence was obtained also for a
modulation of vasoconstrictor responses by dietary fish oils in the perfused
mesenteric bed of the marmoset monkey.

DOI: 10.3109/08037059509077591 
PMID: 7670652  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

