

3915. J Comp Neurol. 1995 Apr 17;354(4):511-32.

Projections of the lateral terminal accessory optic nucleus of the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Blanks RH(1), Clarke RJ, Lui F, Giolli RA, Van Pham S, Torigoe Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy and Neurobiology, School of Medicine, University of
California-Irvine 92717.

The connections of the lateral terminal nucleus (LTN) of the accessory optic
system (AOS) of the marmoset monkey were studied with anterograde 3H-amino acid
light autoradiography and horseradish peroxidase retrograde labeling techniques. 
Results show a first and largest LTN projection to the pretectal and AOS nuclei
including the ipsilateral nucleus of the optic tract, dorsal terminal nucleus,
and interstitial nucleus of the superior fasciculus (posterior fibers); smaller
contralateral projections are to the olivary pretectal nucleus, dorsal terminal
nucleus, and LTN. A second, major bundle produces moderate-to-heavy labeling in
all ipsilateral, accessory oculomotor nuclei (nucleus of posterior commissure,
interstitial nucleus of Cajal, nucleus of Darkschewitsch) and nucleus of
Bechterew; some of the fibers are distributed above the caudal oculomotor complex
within the supraoculomotor periaqueductal gray. A third projection is ipsilateral
to the pontine and mesencephalic reticular formations, nucleus reticularis
tegmenti pontis and basilar pontine complex (dorsolateral nucleus only), dorsal
parts of the medial terminal accessory optic nucleus, ventral tegmental area of
Tsai, and rostral interstitial nucleus of the medial longitudinal fasciculus.
Lastly, there are two long descending bundles: (1) one travels within the medial 
longitudinal fasciculus to terminate in the dorsal cap (ipsilateral >>
contralateral) and medial accessory olive (ipsilateral only) of the inferior
olivary complex. (2) The second soon splits, sending axons within the ipsilateral
and contralateral brachium conjunctivum and is distributed to the superior and
medial vestibular nuclei. The present findings are in general agreement with the 
documented connections of LTN with brainstem oculomotor centers in other species.
In addition, there are unique connections in marmoset monkey that may have
developed to serve the more complex oculomotor behavior of nonhuman primates.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.903540404 
PMID: 7608336  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3916. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 1995 Apr 11;92(8):3601-5.

Prevention of autoimmune demyelination in non-human primates by a cAMP-specific
phosphodiesterase inhibitor.

Genain CP(1), Roberts T, Davis RL, Nguyen MH, Uccelli A, Faulds D, Li Y, Hedgpeth
J, Hauser SL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University of California, San Francisco 94143-0114,
USA.

Experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE) is an autoimmune disease of the
central nervous system that serves as a model for the human disease multiple
sclerosis. We evaluated rolipram, a type IV phosphodiesterase inhibitor, for its 
efficacy in preventing EAE in the common marmoset Callithrix jacchus. In a
blinded experimental design, clinical signs of EAE developed within 17 days of
immunization with human white matter in two placebo-treated animals but in none
of three monkeys that received rolipram (10 mg/kg s.c. every other day) beginning
1 week after immunization. In controls, signs of EAE were associated with
development of cerebrospinal fluid pleocytosis and cerebral MRI abnormalities. In
the treatment group, there was sustained protection from clinical EAE, transient 
cerebrospinal fluid pleocytosis in only one of three animals, no MRI abnormality,
and marked reduction in histopathologic findings. Rolipram-treated and control
animals equally developed circulating antibodies to myelin basic protein. Thus,
inhibition of type IV phosphodiesterase, initiated after sensitization to central
nervous system antigens, protected against autoimmune demyelinating disease.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.92.8.3601 
PMCID: PMC42215
PMID: 7536938  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

