

3918. Cell Tissue Res. 1995 Apr;280(1):49-57.

Localisation of the high affinity facilitative glucose transporter protein GLUT 1
in the placenta of human, marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus) and rat at
different developmental stages.

Hahn T(1), Hartmann M, Blaschitz A, Skofitsch G, Graf R, Dohr G, Desoye G.

Author information: 
(1)Geburtshilflich-Gynäkologische Universitätsklinik, Karl-Franzens-Universität
Graz, Austria.

In the present study, the facilitative D-glucose transporter protein GLUT 1 was
localised by immunohistochemistry in the placenta of human, marmoset (Callithrix 
jacchus) and rat at different developmental stages. A polyclonal antiserum
against a 13-amino-acid peptide of the GLUT 1 carboxy terminus was used. It
identified a protein of around 50 kDa molecular weight in immunoblotting of the
placental tissues. GLUT 1 was located in the syncytiotrophoblast, in
cytotrophoblast cells and in fetal endothelium. Similar staining patterns, except
in human extravillous cytotrophoblast cells, were observed at all differentiation
stages, despite differences in the internal placental architecture of the
species. In the marmoset placenta, GLUT 1 was undetectable in endothelial cells
of maternal vessels. In rat placentae, trophoblastic giant cells, epithelial
cells of both visceral and parietal yolk sac, yolk sac vessels and the stratum
spongiosum were stained. Reichert's membrane did not immunoreact. Preadsorption
of the antiserum with a 13-amino-acid peptide resulted in the loss of
immunoreactivity. The results suggest that GLUT 1 is a prominent isoform of
glucose transporters in mammalian placentae. It is generally abundant in
placental cell populations bordering on the maternal and fetal circulations and
may therefore facilitate an effective glucose supply to the fetus and placenta.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00304510 
PMID: 7750136  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3919. Ann Neurol. 1995 Apr;37(4):519-30.

Active and passively induced experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis in common 
marmosets: a new model for multiple sclerosis.

Massacesi L(1), Genain CP, Lee-Parritz D, Letvin NL, Canfield D, Hauser SL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University of California, San Francisco 94143, USA.

A chronic relapsing-remitting form of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis
was induced in the common marmoset Callithrix jacchus following a single
immunization with human white matter. Individual animals in this species are born
as natural bone marrow chimeras, allowing transfer of functional T-cell
populations between genetically distinct siblings. The acute disease was
characterized clinically by mild neurological signs. Pathologically, the disease 
was characterized by perivascular mononuclear cell infiltrates, large foci of
primary demyelination, and reactive astrogliosis. No animal displayed
hemorrhagic-necrotic lesions or polymorphonuclear cell infiltrates characteristic
of other acute forms of primate experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis. A late
spontaneous relapse occurred in each of 2 animals followed for 3 to 12 months
subsequent to recovery from the acute attack. In these animals, chronic lesions
consisted of mononuclear cell infiltrates within large sharply defined areas of
demyelination and astrogliosis, and resembled active plaques of chronic multiple 
sclerosis. Proliferative responses to myelin basic protein but not to myelin
proteolipid protein were present in peripheral blood lymphocytes of immunized
animals. Furthermore, myelin basic protein-reactive T-cell lines derived from
immunized donors induced clinical signs of experimental autoimmune
encephalomyelitis when adoptively transferred into a sibling, indicating that
myelin basic protein-reactive T cells can induce disease in this species. Because
of its clinical and pathological similarity to human multiple sclerosis and the
ability to adoptively transfer experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis, this
model system should prove useful in the analysis of the immunological mechanisms 
responsible for autoimmune demyelination in outbred primates.

DOI: 10.1002/ana.410370415 
PMID: 7717689  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

