

3921. Anat Rec. 1995 Apr;241(4):469-86.

Culture of marmoset blastocysts on matrigel: a model of differentiation during
the implantation period.

Lopata A(1), Kohlman DJ, Bowes LG, Watkins WB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.

BACKGROUND: The objective was to develop an experimental model for studying the
differentiation of trophoblast and inner cell mass (ICM) during the early stages 
of implantation in primates.
METHODS: Marmoset monkey blastocytes were used in these studies. Ovulation was
timed by plasma progesterone assays in ovarian cycles initiated by administering 
a luteolytic agent to mating marmosets. Embryos were recovered from the uterus
usually at the eight-cell stage and cultured in minimum essential medium
containing fetal calf serum, insulin, and transferrin. The embryos that formed
hatched blastocysts by about day 11 after ovulation were transferred for further 
development in Matrigel-coated culture chambers. After 2, 4, and 6 days of
development, two blastocysts were processed at each interval and serially
sectioned for light and electron microscopy.
RESULTS: All blastocysts adhered to the Matrigel at their embryonic pole within
24 hours. Adherent polar cytotrophoblast was differentiating to
syncytiotrophoblast at all time intervals, but syncytium was not detected in
mural trophoblast until day 4 after attachment. By day 2 syncytial microvilli and
processes had penetrated the Matrigel surface, whereas by days 4 and 6
cytotrophoblast that was differentiating to syncytiotrophoblast had invaded the
matrix. Since all blastocysts maintained their structural integrity progressive
differentiation of the ICM, endoderm and presumptive mesoderm was observed. A
small amniotic cavity was observed at 2 days and by 6 days a distinct cavity
separated polarized epiblast and amnion cells. Visceral and parietal endoderm
were present at 2 days, and a completed primary yolk sac was observed by 4 days
after attachment. In all blastocysts a basal lamina lined the inner surface of
mural and polar trophoblast and the basal surface of the differentiating ICM.
CONCLUSIONS: The developmental time sequence of the cultured blastocysts closely 
resembled the time frame reported for marmoset embryos implanting in utero. An
effective model for studying trophoblast invasion and differentiation of
embryonic germ cell layers has been established.

DOI: 10.1002/ar.1092410405 
PMID: 7604962  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3922. Braz J Med Biol Res. 1995 Mar;28(3):313-21.

Intragastric infection induced in marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) by a Brazilian
hepatitis A virus (HAF-203).

Vitral CL(1), Marchevsky RS, Yoshida CF, Coelho JM, Gaspar AM, Schatzmayr HG.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Virologia, Fundação Oswaldo Cruz, Rio de Janeiro, Brasil.

Several species of non-human primates have been used in studies on experimental
infection with hepatitis A virus (HAV). Attempts to infect a South-American
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) with a Brazilian HAV isolate (HAF-203) are
described here. Four seronegative animals were inoculated intragastrically and
one was sacrificed on day 11, 20, 47 and 62 after infection. One uninfected
animal was included as control. Liver, small intestine, lymph node, spleen and
kidney samples were collected for histological diagnosis and immunocytochemistry 
studies. Alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and aspartate aminotransferase (AST)
serum enzymes and anti-HAV antibodies were monitored by a colorimetric procedure 
(Abbott) and an enzyme immunoassay (ELISA), respectively. Feces were collected
daily for HAV antigen (HAVAg) detection by ELISA. Increased levels of HAVAg were 
detected in hepatocytes 11 days after infection, with a gradual decrease during
the course of infection. Shedding of HAVAg in feces was observed from the late
incubation to the early acute phase (20th day to 47th day after infection). The
end of the incubation period was indicated by the initial increases in serum ALT 
and AST. Severe hepatic lesions such as piecemeal necrosis and bridging necrosis 
were detected during the acute phase, coinciding with the maximum transaminase
levels and the appearance of anti-HAV antibodies. On the 62nd day (convalescent
phase), the hepatic tissue showed evidence of regeneration and the transaminase
values had returned to baselines. The serological, biochemical, antigenic and
histological evidence of hepatitis A was similar to that observed in several
primate models inoculated with other HAV isolates.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250
WORDS)


PMID: 8520524  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

