

3924. J Lipid Res. 1995 Mar;36(3):451-61.

Control of lipolysis in intra-abdominal fat cells of nonhuman primates:
comparison with humans.

Bousquet-Mélou A(1), Galitzky J, Lafontan M, Berlan M.

Author information: 
(1)Institut National de la Santé et de la Recherche Médicale (INSERM), Faculté de
Médecine, Toulouse, France.

The mechanisms that control lipolysis in intra-abdominal fat cells from various
primate species, the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), the baboon (Papio papio), and
the macaque (Macaca fascicularis), were compared to those of human intraabdominal
fat cells. Selective beta 1- or beta 2-adrenoceptor agonists induced lipolysis in
all species. Selective beta 3-agonists (BRL 37344, CL 316243, and SR 58611) acted
as partial agonists in marmoset but were inefficient in other primates, including
humans. alpha 2-Adrenoceptor number ([3H]RX 8210002 binding) equalized (baboon)
or exceeded (other primates) beta 1/beta 2-adrenoceptors ([3H]CGP 12177 binding).
Baboon fat cell membranes expressed similar amounts of coupled beta- and alpha
2-adrenoceptors. In all species, norepinephrine- or epinephrine-induced lipolysis
did not reach the lipolytic effect of isoproterenol but their effects were
enhanced after alpha 2-adrenoceptor blockade. N6-phenylisopropyladenosine (PIA)
induced a full antilipolytic effect in baboon, macaque, and human adipocytes
through adenosine receptors ([3H]DPCPX binding). Peptide YY (PYY) weakly
inhibited lipolysis in baboon. Adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) was inactive
whereas parathyroid hormone (PTH) partially stimulated lipolysis in primates.
Histamine was partially lipolytic in marmoset only. This study emphasizes the
similarities of the mechanisms controlling the lipolysis in nonhuman primate and 
in human adipocytes and suggests that the baboon and the macaque should provide
unique models for the study of the regulation of lipolysis.


PMID: 7775857  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3925. Anat Embryol (Berl). 1995 Mar;191(3):213-25.

Quantitative receptor autoradiography of eight different transmitter-binding
sites in the hippocampus of the common marmoset, Callithrix jacchus.

Kraemer M(1), Zilles K, Schleicher A, Gebhard R, Robbins TW, Everitt BJ, Divac I.

Author information: 
(1)Neurological Clinic, Heinrich-Heine University, Düsseldorf, Germany.

The regional and laminar distributions of eight different transmitter-binding
sites were measured in the marmoset hippocampus by means of quantitative in vitro
receptor autoradiography. Receptors for 5-HT1, L-glutamate, N-methyl-D-aspartate 
(NMDA) and GABAA were similarly distributed. The highest concentrations of these 
receptors were found in the pyramidal layer of CA1 and the molecular layer of the
dentate gyrus. The 5-HT2 receptors showed the highest concentrations in the
oriens layer of CA2. The highest concentrations of muscarinic M1 receptors were
seen in the pyramidal layer of CA1. Muscarinic M2 receptors were most densely
concentrated in the pyramidal layers of CA1, CA2 and CA3. The noradrenergic alpha
1 receptors were most densely packed in the radiatum-lacunosum-molecular layer of
CA2 and the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus. Statistically significant
co-distributions of serotoninergic, glutamatergic and GABAergic receptors point
to possible interactions between these receptor systems in the same hippocampal
regions and layers. Comparisons of marmoset distribution patterns for GABAA,
NMDA, L-glutamate and 5-HT1 receptors with those in human hippocampi and those of
other primates showed similarities between them. Clear differences in the
patterns of alpha 1, M1, M2 and 5-HT2 receptors could be seen between marmoset
and human hippocampi, indicating a high degree of species specificity in a
presumably "conservative" brain region. More similarities, however, could be
found between marmoset and human hippocampi than between those of rat and human
brains, especially in relation to 5-HT1 and GABAA receptors and
L-glutamate-binding sites.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1007/BF00187820 
PMID: 7771684  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

