

3932. Mol Cell Probes. 1995 Feb;9(1):1-8.

Molecular identification of two distinct hemagglutinin types of measles virus by 
polymerase chain reaction and restriction fragment length polymorphism
(PCR-RFLP).

Saito H(1), Nakagomi O, Morita M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, Akita Prefectural Institute of Public Health,
Japan.

Contemporary isolates of measles virus, characterized by their inability to
hemagglutinate, have been shown to possess a hemagglutinin type distinct from
that of classical strains such as the Edmonston strain in that there is a new
glycosylation site at amino acid residue 416. This change abolishes a Sau3Al site
that is found in the corresponding position of the hemagglutination-positive
classical strains. This molecular information prompted us to develop a
restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) assay that is capable of
distinguishing these two distinct hemagglutinin types. The assay consists of the 
amplification of a 349-bp segment of the hemagglutinin gene by reverse
transcription followed by the polymerase chain reaction and Sau3Al digestion of
this amplification product. The resulting two distinct RFLP patterns identified
the hemagglutinin types with regard to the presence or absence of the potential
new glycosylation site. This assay was applied to determine the relative
frequencies over a 28-year period of these two hemagglutinin types present in the
archival acute serum specimens taken from patients with measles. This study
revealed that strains carrying the classical hemagglutinin type predominated
until the early 1980s when it became completely replaced with strains possessing 
the contemporary hemagglutinin type. Because of its direct applicability to the
clinical specimens avoiding selection bias during cell-culture adaptation, this
assay provides a valuable asset in both clinical laboratory and epidemiological
settings.

DOI: 10.1016/s0890-8508(95)90902-8 
PMID: 7760855  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3933. J Endocrinol. 1995 Feb;144(2):201-8.

Induced luteal regression: differential effects on follicular and luteal
inhibin/activin subunit mRNAs in the marmoset monkey.

Fraser HM(1), Lunn SF, Whitelaw PF, Hillier SG.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Reproductive Biology Unit, University of Edinburgh, UK.

During the luteal phase of the primate ovulatory cycle the predominant
inhibin/activin subunit mRNAs produced by the corpus luteum and antral follicles 
are those for the alpha- and beta B-subunits respectively. The control of
expression of these mRNAs and the resultant nature of the endocrine and paracrine
signals which they may potentially generate has yet to be elucidated.
Inhibin/activin subunit mRNAs may have a role in both the paracrine regulation of
follicular and luteal function and modulation of FSH secretion. The aim of this
study was to investigate the expression of inhibin/activin subunit mRNAs
following luteal regression induced by either withdrawal of LH support (GnRH
antagonist treatment), or by a direct inhibitory action (prostaglandin
administration). Marmoset monkeys with regular ovulatory cycles were treated on
day 8 and 9 of the luteal phase with either GnRH antagonist, prostaglandin or
vehicle (n = 3 per group). Ovaries were studied 48 h after onset of treatment (on
day 10 of the luteal phase) by hybridizing frozen tissue sections with
radiolabelled riboprobes specific to the inhibin/activin alpha-, beta A- and beta
B-subunit mRNAs. After autoradiographic exposure, grain concentrations were
quantified by image analysis. In corpora lutea from control marmosets there was
high expression of alpha-mRNA with only marginal expression of beta B-mRNA.
Corpora lutea in animals treated with GnRH antagonist or prostaglandin had
markedly reduced expression of alpha-mRNA while beta B-mRNA was unchanged. In
controls, all healthy antral follicles exhibited a high level of expression of
beta B-mRNA in the granulosa cells and low expression of alpha-mRNA in theca
cells.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1677/joe.0.1440201 
PMID: 7706973  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

