

3946. Folia Primatol (Basel). 1995;64(4):180-91.

Hand, mouth and eye preferences in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Hook-Costigan MA(1), Rogers LJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, University of New England, Armidale, N.S.W.,
Australia.

Motor and sensory preferences were measured for 8 common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus). Three types of motor function were examined: spontaneous feeding, mouth
use when chewing and visuospatial reaching. Eye preference was used as an index
of sensory lateralization. The marmosets displayed individual preferences for the
performance of the motor tasks, but no group biases were revealed. Correlations
between preferences displayed on the motor tests suggest that one hemisphere may 
control spontaneous feeding and lateralized mouth use while the other controls
visuospatial reaching, but no consistent preference was present. In an eye
preference test, 7 subjects displayed right-eye preferences, suggesting
hemispheric specialisation for this function.

DOI: 10.1159/000156851 
PMID: 8613126  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3947. J Clin Lab Anal. 1995;9(5):285-92.

Criteria for consistent and high sensitivity of DNA in situ hybridization on
paraffin sections: optimal proteolytic enzyme digestion.

Lu QL(1), Lawson P, Thomas JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Histopathology, Royal Postgraduate Medical School, London,
England.

It is technically challenging for the detection of target DNA in low abundancy,
such as viral DNA sequences in latently infected cells by nonisotopic in situ
hybridization (ISH). Consistent result is even more difficult to achieve on
routine paraffin sections. Proteolytic enzyme digestion is most critical for both
consistency and sensitivity of the technique. We here have investigated the
effect of enzyme digestion on cell morphology, protein and DNA reduction, and
hybridization efficiency. The results demonstrated that enzyme digestion improves
efficiency of ISH through a process involving partial DNA purification on
sections. There is a clear relationship between proteolytic enzyme digestion,
morphology changes, and hybridization efficiency. Although detection of DNA
sequences in abundance can be achieved within a relatively wide range of
digestion levels, maximum hybridization efficiency was always related to the
cells, which showed morphology of nuclear swollen, weak homogeneous chromatin
staining with hematoxylin and loss of visible nuclear membrane. Detection of
viral DNA in low copy number critically depends on the creation of the
morphologic changes by enzyme digestion. The morphological changes would
therefore serve as important criteria for optimal digestion, result
interpretation, and comparison.

DOI: 10.1002/jcla.1860090502 
PMID: 8531008  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

