

3949. Folia Primatol (Basel). 1995;64(3):107-23.

Comparative study of oestrogen excretion in female New World Monkeys: an overview
of non-invasive ovarian monitoring and a new application in evolutionary biology.

Pryce CR(1), Schwarzenberger F, Döbeli M, Etter K.

Author information: 
(1)Anthropologisches Institut, Universität Zürich-Irchel, Schweiz.

Oestrogen was measured in urine samples collected from captive females
representing 7 species of New World monkey to provide an overview of the
applicability of such formation in the noninvasive monitoring of ovarian function
and to assess the potential applicability of such information in phylogenetic
studies. Species available for study were the pygmy marmoset, common marmoset,
red-bellied tamarin, cotton-top tamarin, golden lion tamarin, Goeldi's monkey and
the owl monkey. Oestrone conjugates were measured in serially collected urine
samples to demonstrate ovarian cyclicity. Urine samples obtained during the
luteal phase were subjected to HPLC to identify immunoreactive oestrogens;
oestrone and oestradiol-17 beta accounted for almost all of the immunoreactive
oestrogen detected while oestriol content was negligible. Urine samples obtained 
during the follicular phase and luteal phase were subjected to glucuronidase
hydrolysis, sulphatase hydrolysis and acid solvolysis, which revealed that the
major immunoreactive oestrogen metabolite was: (1) oestradiol sulphate in the
pygmy marmoset and common marmoset, (2) residual oestradiol in the red-bellied
tamarin, (3) residual oestradiol and oestrone glucuronide in the cotton-top
tamarin, and (4) oestrone glucuronide in the golden lion tamarin, Goeldi's monkey
and owl monkey. A phylogenetic tree based on the above shifts in oestrogen
excretion suggested that clawed New World monkeys are specialized and that the
lineages leading to the study species split off in the following order: Goeldi's 
monkey, golden lion tamarin, cotton-top tamarin, red-bellied tamarin, common
marmoset and pygmy marmoset.

DOI: 10.1159/000156841 
PMID: 8529968  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3950. Life Sci. 1995;56(6):437-44.

Proliferative capacity of marmoset lymphocytes after tetanus vaccination and lack
of 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin to reduce a booster effect.

Neubert R(1), Helge H, Neubert D.

Author information: 
(1)University Medical Center, Free University Berlin.

Marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) were vaccinated with tetanus toxoid and boostered 
3 months and 1 year following the initial immunization. During this period, the
proliferative response of lymphocytes (3H-thymidine incorporation) to the recall 
antigen was measured in vitro in blood samples 7 times. The experimental
procedure proved to be suitable to monitor a defined but complex function of the 
immune system, and to assess possible substance-induced alterations with minimal 
stress or discomfort for the non-human primates. As a first example, a possible
interference by a single very small dose (100 ng/kg body weight) of
2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) given at the time of the second
booster was evaluated. No reduction in the in vitro response of the lymphocytes
to recall antigen was observed under the experimental conditions used, and the
extent of the 3H-thymidine incorporation was not significantly different in the
groups. When the ratio of the responses between the first and the second booster 
was taken as a measure, there was a slight but statistically significant increase
in this ratio for the lymphocytes of the TCDD-treated marmosets over that of
reference animals. The limitations of these attempts to develop a test system and
evaluate a substance-induced effect, and possible improvements of the test, e.g. 
with multivaccination, are discussed. It is suggested to use this approach also
after routine multivaccination in children to assess possible substance-induced
effects on immunological variables. This would allow an excellent comparison of
experimental and clinical data obtained in primates with an identical technology.

DOI: 10.1016/0024-3205(94)00908-2 
PMID: 7830504  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

