

3958. Braz J Med Biol Res. 1995 Jan;28(1):108-12.

The effect of parturition on the interactions within pairs of common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus).

Mota MT(1), Sousa MB, Campos MF.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Fisiologia, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Norte,
Natal, RN, Brasil.

The relationship within common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) pairs is based on
pair-bond formation. This pair-bond is important for the successful rearing of
the young and for the enhancement of reproductive success. Female marmosets bear 
twins which are carried mainly by males starting on the first day after the birth
of the infants. Little is known, however, about the patterns of sociosexual
interaction between callitrichid pairs and how these interactions change after
the arrival of offspring. To evaluate the effect of parturition on these
interactions, three heterosexual pairs of common marmosets were observed for four
weeks before and four weeks after the birth of infants. The animals were kept in 
individual outdoor cages of the Nucleo de Primatologia, under environmental
conditions. The time spent in proximity was mainly attributable to the initiative
of females before parturition and the initiative of males after the offspring
arrived. Males were groomed more before than after the birth of infants. In
contrast, the amount of grooming received by females was the same in the two
situations. These observations suggest that the relationship within pairs of
common marmosets is slightly modified by the birth of infants and indicates that 
males and females could be using different strategies to enhance their
reproductive success.


PMID: 7581018  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3959. J Med Primatol. 1995 Jan;24(1):49-51.

Melanotic ependymoma in a Goeldi's marmoset (Callimico goeldii).

Nichols DK(1), Dias JL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, National Zoological Park, Smithsonian Institution,
Washington, DC 20008-2598, USA.

A spontaneous melanotic ependymoma was observed in the brain of an adult female
Goeldi's marmoset (Callimico goeldii). The mass completely occupied the left
lateral ventricle, rupturing the fornix and corpus callosum, and compressing the 
adjacent neuropil. Special histochemical techniques, including melanin bleach,
periodic acid-Schiff, Perls iron and phosphotungstic acid hematoxylin,
demonstrated the neoplasms to be an ependymoma with a rare melanotic
differentiation.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0684.1995.tb00144.x 
PMID: 7563011  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

