

3964. Neuroscience. 1994 Dec;63(3):881-94.

Death of neurons in the neonatal rodent and primate globus pallidus occurs by a
mechanism of apoptosis.

Waters CM(1), Moser W, Walkinshaw G, Mitchell IJ.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Pharmacology and Toxicology Research Group, School of Biological
Sciences, University of Manchester, U.K.

We have examined the developing rat, mouse and marmoset globus pallidus for
evidence of cells dying by a process of "naturally occurring" or programmed cell 
death. We have demonstrated that cells in the developing mammalian globus
pallidus die by a process of apoptosis and that by day 7 after birth many of the 
apoptotic cells possess a neuronal phenotype. Light microscopic and
ultrastructural evidence of apoptotic cell death included cell shrinkage,
blebbing of the extracellular membrane and condensation of the nuclear chromatin.
Additionally we used an in situ nick translation method to assess the integrity
of the DNA within the dying cells. This revealed that cells with the
morphological characteristics of apoptosis also possessed fragmented DNA typical 
of cells undergoing Type 1 programmed or apoptotic cell death. The lack of
lysosomal enzyme activity within the dying cells and the frequent observations of
phagocytosis by neighbouring cells also suggest that the form of programmed cell 
death is apoptosis and not Type 2 autophagic degeneration. We found no evidence
for cells dying by Type 3 non-lysosomal degeneration since all dying cells
examined under the electron microscope possessed intact intracellular organelles 
and cell membranes. We developed a sensitive silver stain which detected balls of
condensed chromatin within the apoptotic cells. This enabled identification of
apoptotic cells in the developing globus pallidus at low magnification and so
allowed us to map the numbers and distribution of dying cells with time. The
incidence of apoptotic cells in the neonatal globus pallidus was greatest at
birth and then declined such that few cells were detected at one week and none
was seen in the adult rat. Although the loss of large numbers of cells in the
developing nervous system is a well documented phenomenon, there are only a
limited number of reports of the mechanism by which neuronal cells die, and few
of these are in the developing mammalian brain. There are at least four different
morphological categories of neuronal cell death which are discriminated on
morphological and biochemical criteria. Our analysis suggests that apoptotic or
Type 1 cell death is the major form of programmed cell death occurring in the
mammalian globus pallidus in the first week of life. This report also describes
the use of two methods for the ready identification of apoptotic cells at the
light microscope level. Because these methods are suitable for use on tissue
sections they provide a means to assess the incidence of apoptotic cell death, in
parallel with other analyses of the expression of gene products which control
cell fate.

DOI: 10.1016/0306-4522(94)90532-0 
PMID: 7898683  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3965. Neuroscience. 1994 Dec;63(3):653-66.

Restoration of cognitive abilities by cholinergic grafts in cortex of monkeys
with lesions of the basal nucleus of Meynert.

Ridley RM(1), Baker JA, Baker HF, Maclean CJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, Cambridge, U.K.

Three groups of marmosets were trained to perform a series of visual
discrimination tasks in a Wisconsin General Test Apparatus. Two groups then
received bilateral lesions of the basal nucleus of Meynert using the excitotoxin 
N-methyl-D-aspartate and were found to be severely impaired on relearning a
visual discrimination first learnt prior to surgery. One lesioned group then
received grafts of acetylcholine-rich tissue dissected from the basal forebrain
of fetal marmosets. Three months later the marmosets with lesion alone remained
impaired on a number of retention and reversal tasks whereas the transplanted
animals were no longer significantly impaired. Histological examination of the
brains indicated that all lesioned animals had sustained substantial loss of the 
cholinergic neurons of the basal nucleus of Meynert (assessed by nerve growth
factor receptor immunoreactivity) and that the lesion-alone animals showed marked
loss of the cholinergic marker acetylcholinesterase in the dorsolateral frontal
and parietal cortex. All transplanted animals had surviving graft tissue
(visualized by Cresyl Violet staining, dense acetylcholinesterase staining and
the presence of a limited number of nerve growth factor receptor-immunoreactive
neurons) in the neocortex and 5/6 transplanted animals showed near complete
restitution of acetylcholinesterase staining in frontal and parietal cortex.
Examination of individual animal data showed that the animal without this
restitution performed very poorly. The performance of the remaining transplanted 
animals was significantly better than that of the animals with lesion alone.
There was a significant positive correlation between the degree of
acetylcholinesterase staining and good performance on tasks sensitive to frontal 
lobe damage. These results demonstrate that acetylcholine-rich tissue
transplanted into the neocortex of primates with damage to the cholinergic
projections to the neocortex can produce substantial restitution of function
provided that an appropriate level of interaction between graft and host tissue
is achieved.

DOI: 10.1016/0306-4522(94)90512-6 
PMID: 7898668  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

