

3965. Neuroscience. 1994 Dec;63(3):653-66.

Restoration of cognitive abilities by cholinergic grafts in cortex of monkeys
with lesions of the basal nucleus of Meynert.

Ridley RM(1), Baker JA, Baker HF, Maclean CJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, Cambridge, U.K.

Three groups of marmosets were trained to perform a series of visual
discrimination tasks in a Wisconsin General Test Apparatus. Two groups then
received bilateral lesions of the basal nucleus of Meynert using the excitotoxin 
N-methyl-D-aspartate and were found to be severely impaired on relearning a
visual discrimination first learnt prior to surgery. One lesioned group then
received grafts of acetylcholine-rich tissue dissected from the basal forebrain
of fetal marmosets. Three months later the marmosets with lesion alone remained
impaired on a number of retention and reversal tasks whereas the transplanted
animals were no longer significantly impaired. Histological examination of the
brains indicated that all lesioned animals had sustained substantial loss of the 
cholinergic neurons of the basal nucleus of Meynert (assessed by nerve growth
factor receptor immunoreactivity) and that the lesion-alone animals showed marked
loss of the cholinergic marker acetylcholinesterase in the dorsolateral frontal
and parietal cortex. All transplanted animals had surviving graft tissue
(visualized by Cresyl Violet staining, dense acetylcholinesterase staining and
the presence of a limited number of nerve growth factor receptor-immunoreactive
neurons) in the neocortex and 5/6 transplanted animals showed near complete
restitution of acetylcholinesterase staining in frontal and parietal cortex.
Examination of individual animal data showed that the animal without this
restitution performed very poorly. The performance of the remaining transplanted 
animals was significantly better than that of the animals with lesion alone.
There was a significant positive correlation between the degree of
acetylcholinesterase staining and good performance on tasks sensitive to frontal 
lobe damage. These results demonstrate that acetylcholine-rich tissue
transplanted into the neocortex of primates with damage to the cholinergic
projections to the neocortex can produce substantial restitution of function
provided that an appropriate level of interaction between graft and host tissue
is achieved.

DOI: 10.1016/0306-4522(94)90512-6 
PMID: 7898668  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3966. Am J Phys Anthropol. 1994 Dec;95(4):399-408.

Social implications of gummivory in marmosets.

Harrison ML(1), Tardif SD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Kent State University Trumbull Campus,
Warren, Ohio 44483.

Gummivory or exudate feeding is a major dietary specialization which has received
relatively little attention in the literature. While plant exudates contribute to
the diet of many primate species, we suggest that the callitrichid species
Cebuella pygmaea and Callithrix jacchus are obligate exudate feeders under
free-ranging conditions. Callithrix jacchus provides an excellent model for
examining the effects of exudate feeding and foraging upon social behavior, since
other callitrichid species of similar body size do not share this dietary
specialization. We review the effects of exudate foraging on specific social
behaviors observed both in field and laboratory populations of C. jacchus. By
comparing this species to closely related species, exudate foraging is seen to
(1) be retained under laboratory conditions, (2) increase the frequency of
territorial marking behavior while decreasing the frequency of overt aggression
in males, (3) decrease the duration of infant care, and (4) increase the number
of nonadults in social groups but not affect group size. The evidence presented
supports the hypothesis that the consequences of exudate foraging in C. jacchus
are fundamental and socially complex.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.1330950404 
PMID: 7864061  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

