

3978. J Craniofac Genet Dev Biol. 1994 Oct-Dec;14(4):245-51.

Temporomandibular joint development in the marmoset--a mirror of man.

Robinson PD(1), Poswillo DE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, U.M.D.S. Guy's Campus, London,
UK.

The timing of temporomandibular joint (TMJ) development in the cotton-eared
marmoset was studied by histological examination of joints taken during
embryogenesis and compared with TMJ development reported in man. Specimens were
obtained via hysterotomy at intervals during pregnancies dated by estimation of
uterine size or fetal head diameter. Elements of the marmoset TMJ were first
identified at 70-85 days gestation, and TMJ morphogenesis was complete at 110-125
days. The chronological events of TMJ embryogenesis were found to run parallel to
the human but were delayed by 30 days. At birth, after 150 days gestation, the
marmoset TMJ resembled the human joint at the end of the second trimester, with
all cell layers of the condylar cartilage in place and ossification started in
temporal and condylar components. A new world primate, the cotton-eared marmoset 
is proposed as an animal model for craniofacial studies involving the TMJ on
grounds of its close comparability to man.


PMID: 7883871  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3979. Okajimas Folia Anat Jpn. 1994 Oct;71(4):259-77.

Microvasculature of the lingual papillae in primates and insectivores--fungiform,
vallate and foliate papillae.

Matsukawa N(1), Okada S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, Osaka Dental University, Japan.

The microvascular architecture of the fungiform, vallate and foliate papillae was
investigated under scanning electron microscope in man, common squirrel monkeys, 
common marmosets, common tree shrews (primates), large Japanese moles and dwarf
shrews (insectivores) utilizing microvascular corrosion casts. The fungiform
papilla of the lingual apex in man was supplied by an intrapapillary capillary
network with a globular pattern. It was composed of 10-15 capillary loops in a
circular arrangement and 5-7 thick capillaries in the center. The fungiform
papilla of the lingual body was supplied by a dense capillary network on the top 
and lateral surfaces. That in other primates was supplied by a cylindrical
capillary network and loop formation was seen on the top surface. That in
insectivores was supplied by a thin cylindrical network with coarse meshes, at
the tips of which were observed 2 or 3 capillary rings in the mole and only one
in the dwarf shrew. The vallate papilla in primates was supplied by an
intrapapillary capillary network with a globular pattern, and showed irregularly 
tortuous capillary loops on its top surface. The vallum was supplied by a
capillary network in man and usually one or two rows of loops arranged in a
circle in other primates. The vallate papilla in insectivores was supplied by a
doughnut-like capillary network with a recess on the top surface, and an
indistinctly low vallum by a low undulating network. The foliate papillae were
most developed in man, and each lobule was supplied by capillaries passing
longitudinal to it and capillary loops in 5-10 regular rows on the top, but 3-5
rudimentary lobules in the squirrel monkey and marmoset. In the two species, each
lobule was supplied by one arteriole, one venule and a coarse capillary network
continuing from the interpapillary network. No foliate papilla was observed, but 
large conical papillae were noted in the tree shrew and insectivores. In
conclusion, the intrapapillary vasculature appeared most complicated in man,
simplified in the squirrel monkey and marmoset, and was much more simplified in
the insectivores, where it was quite different from that in the primates. The
pattern of the intrapapillary vasculature in the tree shrew was transitional
between primates and insectivores.

DOI: 10.2535/ofaj1936.71.4_259 
PMID: 7830994  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

