

3979. Okajimas Folia Anat Jpn. 1994 Oct;71(4):259-77.

Microvasculature of the lingual papillae in primates and insectivores--fungiform,
vallate and foliate papillae.

Matsukawa N(1), Okada S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, Osaka Dental University, Japan.

The microvascular architecture of the fungiform, vallate and foliate papillae was
investigated under scanning electron microscope in man, common squirrel monkeys, 
common marmosets, common tree shrews (primates), large Japanese moles and dwarf
shrews (insectivores) utilizing microvascular corrosion casts. The fungiform
papilla of the lingual apex in man was supplied by an intrapapillary capillary
network with a globular pattern. It was composed of 10-15 capillary loops in a
circular arrangement and 5-7 thick capillaries in the center. The fungiform
papilla of the lingual body was supplied by a dense capillary network on the top 
and lateral surfaces. That in other primates was supplied by a cylindrical
capillary network and loop formation was seen on the top surface. That in
insectivores was supplied by a thin cylindrical network with coarse meshes, at
the tips of which were observed 2 or 3 capillary rings in the mole and only one
in the dwarf shrew. The vallate papilla in primates was supplied by an
intrapapillary capillary network with a globular pattern, and showed irregularly 
tortuous capillary loops on its top surface. The vallum was supplied by a
capillary network in man and usually one or two rows of loops arranged in a
circle in other primates. The vallate papilla in insectivores was supplied by a
doughnut-like capillary network with a recess on the top surface, and an
indistinctly low vallum by a low undulating network. The foliate papillae were
most developed in man, and each lobule was supplied by capillaries passing
longitudinal to it and capillary loops in 5-10 regular rows on the top, but 3-5
rudimentary lobules in the squirrel monkey and marmoset. In the two species, each
lobule was supplied by one arteriole, one venule and a coarse capillary network
continuing from the interpapillary network. No foliate papilla was observed, but 
large conical papillae were noted in the tree shrew and insectivores. In
conclusion, the intrapapillary vasculature appeared most complicated in man,
simplified in the squirrel monkey and marmoset, and was much more simplified in
the insectivores, where it was quite different from that in the primates. The
pattern of the intrapapillary vasculature in the tree shrew was transitional
between primates and insectivores.

DOI: 10.2535/ofaj1936.71.4_259 
PMID: 7830994  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3980. Chronobiol Int. 1994 Oct;11(5):275-84.

Characteristics of the light-induced phase response of circadian activity rhythms
in common marmosets, Callithrix j. jacchus [primates-Cebidae].

Wechselberger E(1), Erkert HG.

Author information: 
(1)Zoologisches Institut/Tierphysiologie, Universität Tübingen, Germany.

Phase-response experiments using 1-h light pulses (LPs) of 1,100 lux applied
under constant dim light of 0.3 lux were conducted with common marmosets,
Callithrix j. jacchus, in order to obtain a complete phase-response curve
established according to the common experimental procedure in a diurnal primate. 
Maximal phase delays of the free-running circadian activity rhythm (-90 min) were
induced by LPs delivered at circadian time (CT) 12; e.g., during the beginning of
the marmosets' rest time, maximal advances (+25 min) were elicited by pulses
administered during the late subjective night at CT 21. In contrast to rodents,
neither regular transient cycles nor regular period responses resulted from LP
applications at different phases. To check whether the underlying period length
affects the phase response in primates as well, the marmosets' circadian timing
system was entrained to 25 h by a light:dark (LD) cycle of 12.5:12.5 h. The 1-h
LPs were delivered during the first circadian cycle produced under constant dim
light after the entraining LD periods. Here, LPs applied at CT 21 led to phase
advances exceeding those measured during the steady-state free run. At CT 12,
minor or no phase delays could be elicited. These findings show that the
phase-shifting effect of LPs on the circadian system of marmosets is similar to
that observed in other diurnal mammals. Some of the results indicate that in this
diurnal primate, LP-induced phase shifts may be mediated in part by a
light-induced increase in locomotor activity (arousal).

DOI: 10.3109/07420529409057243 
PMID: 7828210  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

