

3986. J Mol Evol. 1994 Sep;39(3):255-67.

Molecular evolution of interleukin-3.

Burger H(1), Wagemaker G, Leunissen JA, Dorssers LC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Dr. Daniel den Hoed Cancer Center/Dijkzigt,
University Hospital Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

Chimpanzee, tamarin, and marmoset interleukin-3 (IL-3) genes were cloned,
sequenced, and expressed. Western blot analysis demonstrated that functional
genes were isolated. IL-3 sequences were compared with those of mouse, rat,
rhesus monkey, gibbon, and man. Multiple alignment of the IL-3 coding regions
showed that only a few regions had been conserved during mammalian evolution,
which are likely associated with functional domains of the IL-3 protein.
Substitution rates for the various lineages were calculated and the numbers of
synonymous and nonsynonymous substitutions were estimated separately. Distance
matrices of the IL-3 coding regions were used to construct phylogenetic trees
which revealed large differences in IL-3 evolution rate as well as a more rapid
substitution rate for rodents and a rate slowdown during hominoid evolution.
Extremes were rhesus monkey IL-3, which accumulated few synonymous substitutions,
and gibbon IL-3, which had almost exclusively synonymous substitutions. In rhesus
monkey IL-3, nonsynonymous substitutions outnumbered synonymous substitutions,
which could not be readily explained by a random process of substitutions. We
assume that during evolution of IL-3, the majority of the amino acid replacements
and the impaired interspecies functional cross-reactivity originate from
selection mechanisms with the most likely selective force being the structure of 
the heterodimeric IL.3 cell-surface receptor. Insight into IL-3 architecture and 
structural analysis of the IL-3 receptor are needed to analyze the unusually fast
evolution of IL-3 in more detail.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00160149 
PMID: 7932787  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3987. Trop Med Parasitol. 1994 Sep;45(3):272-7.

Animal pharmacokinetics and metabolism of the new antimalarial Ro 42-1611
(arteflene).

Girometta MA(1), Jauch R, Ponelle C, Guenzi A, Wiegand-Chou RC.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratorio di Farmacocinetica, Roche S.p.A., Milan, Italy.

Ro 42-1611 (arteflene) is a new synthetic structural analogue of yingzhaosu, a
Chinese traditional herbal drug, now under development for treatment of malaria. 
The in vivo activity of arteflene in a mouse animal model was 4-5 fold higher
after parenteral than after oral administration. Pharmacokinetics of the drug
were investigated in mice, rats, dogs, marmosets and cynomolgus monkeys. Plasma
concentrations of arteflene were determined using a specific HPLC-UV method; the 
limit of quantification was 45 ng/ml using 0.5 ml plasma. The oral
bioavailability was very low and variable (0.6% in mice, 4-5% in rats, 2.5 +/- 1%
in dogs, < or = 0.5% in marmosets and < 0.5% in cynomolgus) as expected from the 
high metabolic clearance and the relative short apparent half-life (1.4-4.7 h).
However, a metabolite (MA) was observed in plasma of all species indicating that 
drug was absorbed but underwent extensive first-pass metabolism. MA was also
detected in samples of human plasma, collected during an oral tolerability study 
in healthy volunteers. After incubation of 14C-arteflene with liver microsomes of
mice, rats, dogs and humans, the same major metabolite was detected and both
samples were identical to Ro 47-6936 which was chemically synthesized as a
reference compound. The in vitro activity of Ro 47-6936 was tested against
Plasmodium falciparum and found to be about 1/4 that of the parent drug.
Therefore, this metabolite makes a significant contribution to the biological
activity in vivo, partially explaining the high activity of arteflene after oral 
administration in spite of its low bioavailability. Moreover, comparison of the
metabolic patterns from human, rat and dog microsomes indicated that the dog is
an appropriate species for toxicological evaluations.


PMID: 7899803  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

