

3997. Mol Neurobiol. 1994 Aug-Dec;9(1-3):207-23.

Behavioral assessment of the ability of intracerebral embryonic neural tissue
grafts to ameliorate the effects of brain damage in marmosets.

Ridley RM(1), Baker HF, Annett LE, Dunnett SB, Torres EM, Fine A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Biophysics, Faculty of Medicine, Dalhousie
University, Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada.

The transplantation of neuronal tissue into the brains of patients with
Parkinson's disease is already being assessed as an experimental treatment for
the symptoms of this disease, and the possibility of using similar graft tissue
to ameliorate the symptoms of other neurodegenerative diseases is being
considered. In this context, a small number of transplant experiments have been
carried out in monkeys with lesions of the central dopamine and cholinergic
systems. These experiments make it possible to determine the optimum methods of
transplantation in an animal whose brain is structurally more closely related to 
the human than that of the rat and to assess the behavioral consequences of
transplantation on symptoms that either resemble very closely the symptoms seen
in patients, or are of a complex cognitive nature and are therefore more
difficult to measure in the rat. It is intended that these experiments will
contribute to the development of better treatments for the neurodegenerative
diseases, either by the use of transplantation as a clinical treatment, or by
contributing to a better understanding of the mechanisms that normally maintain
neuronal function and that fail in these diseases.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02816120 
PMID: 7888097  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3998. Eur J Cell Biol. 1994 Aug;64(2):295-313.

Evolution of alanine:glyoxylate aminotransferase 1 peroxisomal and mitochondrial 
targeting. A survey of its subcellular distribution in the livers of various
representatives of the classes Mammalia, Aves and Amphibia.

Danpure CJ(1), Fryer P, Jennings PR, Allsop J, Griffiths S, Cunningham A.

Author information: 
(1)Biochemical Genetics Research Group, MRC Clinical Research Centre, Harrow,
United Kingdom.

As part of a wider study on the molecular evolution of alanine:glyoxylate
aminotransferase 1 (AGT1) intracellular compartmentalization, we have determined 
the subcellular distribution of immunoreactive AGT1, using postembedding protein 
A-gold immunoelectron microscopy, in the livers of various members of the classes
Mammalia, Aves, and Amphibia. As far as organellar distribution is concerned,
three categories could be distinguished. In members of the first category (type
I), all, or nearly all, of the immunoreactive AGT1 was concentrated within the
peroxisomes. In the second category (type II), AGT1 was found more evenly
distributed in both peroxisomes and mitochondria. In the third category (type
III), AGT1 was localized mainly within the mitochondria with much lower, but
widely variable, amounts in the peroxisomes. Type I animals include the human,
two great apes (gorilla, orangutan), two Old World monkeys (anubis baboon,
Japanese macaque), a New World monkey (white-faced Saki monkey), a lago, morph
(European rabbit), a bat (Seba's short-tailed fruit bat), two caviomorph rodents 
(guinea pig, orange-rumped agouti), and two Australian marsupials (koala,
Bennett's wallaby). Type II animals include two New World monkeys (common
marmoset, cotton-top tamarin), three prosimians (brown lemur, fat-tailed dwarf
lemur, pygmy slow loris), five rodents (a hybrid crested porcupine, Colombian
ground squirrel, laboratory rat, laboratory mouse, golden hamster), an American
marsupial (grey short-tailed opossum), and a bird (raven). Type III animals
include the large tree shrew, three insectivores (common Eurasian mole, European 
hedgehog, house shrew), four carnivores (domestic cat, ocelot, domestic dog,
polecat ferret), and an amphibian (common frog). In addition to these categories,
some animals (e.g. guinea pig, common frog) possessed significant amounts of
cytosolic AGT1. Whereas the subcellular distribution of AGT1 in some orders (e.g.
Insectivora and Carnivora) did not appear to vary markedly between the different 
members, in other orders (e.g. Primates, Rodentia and Marsupialia) it fluctuated 
widely between the different species. Phylogenetic analysis indicates that the
subcellular distribution of AGT1 has changed radically on numerous occasions
during the evolution of mammals. The new observations presented in this paper are
compatible with our previous demonstration of a relationship between AGT1
subcellular distribution and either present or putative ancestral dietary habit, 
and our previous suggestion that the molecular evolution of the AGT gene has been
markedly influenced by dietary selection pressure.


PMID: 7813517  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

