

3998. Eur J Cell Biol. 1994 Aug;64(2):295-313.

Evolution of alanine:glyoxylate aminotransferase 1 peroxisomal and mitochondrial 
targeting. A survey of its subcellular distribution in the livers of various
representatives of the classes Mammalia, Aves and Amphibia.

Danpure CJ(1), Fryer P, Jennings PR, Allsop J, Griffiths S, Cunningham A.

Author information: 
(1)Biochemical Genetics Research Group, MRC Clinical Research Centre, Harrow,
United Kingdom.

As part of a wider study on the molecular evolution of alanine:glyoxylate
aminotransferase 1 (AGT1) intracellular compartmentalization, we have determined 
the subcellular distribution of immunoreactive AGT1, using postembedding protein 
A-gold immunoelectron microscopy, in the livers of various members of the classes
Mammalia, Aves, and Amphibia. As far as organellar distribution is concerned,
three categories could be distinguished. In members of the first category (type
I), all, or nearly all, of the immunoreactive AGT1 was concentrated within the
peroxisomes. In the second category (type II), AGT1 was found more evenly
distributed in both peroxisomes and mitochondria. In the third category (type
III), AGT1 was localized mainly within the mitochondria with much lower, but
widely variable, amounts in the peroxisomes. Type I animals include the human,
two great apes (gorilla, orangutan), two Old World monkeys (anubis baboon,
Japanese macaque), a New World monkey (white-faced Saki monkey), a lago, morph
(European rabbit), a bat (Seba's short-tailed fruit bat), two caviomorph rodents 
(guinea pig, orange-rumped agouti), and two Australian marsupials (koala,
Bennett's wallaby). Type II animals include two New World monkeys (common
marmoset, cotton-top tamarin), three prosimians (brown lemur, fat-tailed dwarf
lemur, pygmy slow loris), five rodents (a hybrid crested porcupine, Colombian
ground squirrel, laboratory rat, laboratory mouse, golden hamster), an American
marsupial (grey short-tailed opossum), and a bird (raven). Type III animals
include the large tree shrew, three insectivores (common Eurasian mole, European 
hedgehog, house shrew), four carnivores (domestic cat, ocelot, domestic dog,
polecat ferret), and an amphibian (common frog). In addition to these categories,
some animals (e.g. guinea pig, common frog) possessed significant amounts of
cytosolic AGT1. Whereas the subcellular distribution of AGT1 in some orders (e.g.
Insectivora and Carnivora) did not appear to vary markedly between the different 
members, in other orders (e.g. Primates, Rodentia and Marsupialia) it fluctuated 
widely between the different species. Phylogenetic analysis indicates that the
subcellular distribution of AGT1 has changed radically on numerous occasions
during the evolution of mammals. The new observations presented in this paper are
compatible with our previous demonstration of a relationship between AGT1
subcellular distribution and either present or putative ancestral dietary habit, 
and our previous suggestion that the molecular evolution of the AGT gene has been
markedly influenced by dietary selection pressure.


PMID: 7813517  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3999. J Virol. 1994 Jul;68(7):4369-76.

Epstein-Barr virus recombinant molecular genetic analysis of the LMP1
amino-terminal cytoplasmic domain reveals a probable structural role, with no
component essential for primary B-lymphocyte growth transformation.

Izumi KM(1), Kaye KM, Kieff ED.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Molecular Genetics, Harvard Medical School,
Boston, Massachusetts.

Previous recombinant Epstein-Barr virus molecular genetic experiments with
specifically mutated LMP1 genes indicate that LMP1 is essential for primary
B-lymphocyte growth transformation and that the amino-terminal cytoplasmic and
first transmembrane domains are together an important mediator of transformation.
EBV recombinants with specific deletions in the amino-terminal cytoplasmic domain
have now been constructed and tested for the ability to growth transform primary 
B lymphocytes into lymphoblastoid cell lines. Surprisingly, deletion of DNA
encoding EHDLER or GPPLSSS from the full LMP1 amino-terminal cytoplasmic domain
(MEHDLERGPPGPRRPPRGPPLSSS) had no discernible effect on primary B-lymphocyte
transformation. These two motifs distinguish the LMP1 amino-terminal cytoplasmic 
domain from other arginine-rich membrane proximal sequences that anchor
hydrophobic transmembrane domains. Two deletions which included the ERGPPGPRRPPR 
motif adversely affected but did not prevent transformation. This arginine- and
proline-rich sequence is probably important in anchoring the first transmembrane 
domain in the plasma membrane, since these mutated LMP1s had altered stability
and cell membrane localization. The finding that overlapping deletions of the
entire amino-terminal cytoplasmic domain do not ablate transformation is most
consistent with a model postulating that the transmembrane and carboxyl-terminal 
cytoplasmic domains are the likely biochemical effectors of transformation.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.68.7.4369-4376.1994 
PMCID: PMC236360
PMID: 8207810  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

