

3999. J Virol. 1994 Jul;68(7):4369-76.

Epstein-Barr virus recombinant molecular genetic analysis of the LMP1
amino-terminal cytoplasmic domain reveals a probable structural role, with no
component essential for primary B-lymphocyte growth transformation.

Izumi KM(1), Kaye KM, Kieff ED.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Molecular Genetics, Harvard Medical School,
Boston, Massachusetts.

Previous recombinant Epstein-Barr virus molecular genetic experiments with
specifically mutated LMP1 genes indicate that LMP1 is essential for primary
B-lymphocyte growth transformation and that the amino-terminal cytoplasmic and
first transmembrane domains are together an important mediator of transformation.
EBV recombinants with specific deletions in the amino-terminal cytoplasmic domain
have now been constructed and tested for the ability to growth transform primary 
B lymphocytes into lymphoblastoid cell lines. Surprisingly, deletion of DNA
encoding EHDLER or GPPLSSS from the full LMP1 amino-terminal cytoplasmic domain
(MEHDLERGPPGPRRPPRGPPLSSS) had no discernible effect on primary B-lymphocyte
transformation. These two motifs distinguish the LMP1 amino-terminal cytoplasmic 
domain from other arginine-rich membrane proximal sequences that anchor
hydrophobic transmembrane domains. Two deletions which included the ERGPPGPRRPPR 
motif adversely affected but did not prevent transformation. This arginine- and
proline-rich sequence is probably important in anchoring the first transmembrane 
domain in the plasma membrane, since these mutated LMP1s had altered stability
and cell membrane localization. The finding that overlapping deletions of the
entire amino-terminal cytoplasmic domain do not ablate transformation is most
consistent with a model postulating that the transmembrane and carboxyl-terminal 
cytoplasmic domains are the likely biochemical effectors of transformation.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.68.7.4369-4376.1994 
PMCID: PMC236360
PMID: 8207810  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4000. J Neurosci. 1994 Jul;14(7):4269-88.

The consistency, extent, and locations of early-onset changes in cortical nerve
dominance aggregates following injury of nerves to primate hands.

Kolarik RC(1), Rasey SK, Wall JT.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, Medical College of Ohio, Toledo 43699.

The somatosensory cortex of primates contains patch- and bandlike aggregates of
neurons that are dominantly activated by cutaneous inputs from the radial,
median, and ulnar nerves to the hand. In the present study, the area 3b hand
cortex of adult monkeys was mapped immediately before and after combined median
and ulnar nerve transection to evaluate the consistency, extent, and location of 
early post-injury alterations in the deprived median and ulnar nerve cortical
bands. Several alterations were observed acutely after injury. (1) The patchlike 
cortical aggregates of intact radial nerve inputs from the hand underwent a two- 
to three-fold expansion. This expansion was not related to peripheral changes in 
the radial nerve skin territory, but was due to rapid central decompression of
radial nerve dominance patches. (2) The largest changes involved patches in
lateral to central locations of the hand map. (3) The expanded patches occupied
cortical zones that were activated by inputs from the digits, palm, and posterior
hand prior to injury. These receptive field shifts were initiated within minutes 
after injury. (4) Receptive fields of neurons within expanded radial nerve
patches were normal in size. (5) Besides changes involving radial nerve inputs
from the hand, there was a small expansion of forelimb inputs into the preinjury 
hand cortex; however, the representation of face inputs did not expand into this 
cortex. (6) Finally, neurons across 50-69% of the hand cortex were unresponsive
to tactile stimuli acutely after this injury. These findings indicate that the
distribution patterns of nerve dominance aggregates in adult primates begin
changing within minutes after nerve injury. Cortical changes involving specific
inputs occupy similar extents and locations of cortex, and are arranged in highly
consistent patterns, in different individuals. It is suggested that this
consistency reflects specific patterns of central sensitization or disinhibition 
that are triggered by the injury.


PMCID: PMC6577019
PMID: 8027778  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

