

4000. J Neurosci. 1994 Jul;14(7):4269-88.

The consistency, extent, and locations of early-onset changes in cortical nerve
dominance aggregates following injury of nerves to primate hands.

Kolarik RC(1), Rasey SK, Wall JT.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, Medical College of Ohio, Toledo 43699.

The somatosensory cortex of primates contains patch- and bandlike aggregates of
neurons that are dominantly activated by cutaneous inputs from the radial,
median, and ulnar nerves to the hand. In the present study, the area 3b hand
cortex of adult monkeys was mapped immediately before and after combined median
and ulnar nerve transection to evaluate the consistency, extent, and location of 
early post-injury alterations in the deprived median and ulnar nerve cortical
bands. Several alterations were observed acutely after injury. (1) The patchlike 
cortical aggregates of intact radial nerve inputs from the hand underwent a two- 
to three-fold expansion. This expansion was not related to peripheral changes in 
the radial nerve skin territory, but was due to rapid central decompression of
radial nerve dominance patches. (2) The largest changes involved patches in
lateral to central locations of the hand map. (3) The expanded patches occupied
cortical zones that were activated by inputs from the digits, palm, and posterior
hand prior to injury. These receptive field shifts were initiated within minutes 
after injury. (4) Receptive fields of neurons within expanded radial nerve
patches were normal in size. (5) Besides changes involving radial nerve inputs
from the hand, there was a small expansion of forelimb inputs into the preinjury 
hand cortex; however, the representation of face inputs did not expand into this 
cortex. (6) Finally, neurons across 50-69% of the hand cortex were unresponsive
to tactile stimuli acutely after this injury. These findings indicate that the
distribution patterns of nerve dominance aggregates in adult primates begin
changing within minutes after nerve injury. Cortical changes involving specific
inputs occupy similar extents and locations of cortex, and are arranged in highly
consistent patterns, in different individuals. It is suggested that this
consistency reflects specific patterns of central sensitization or disinhibition 
that are triggered by the injury.


PMCID: PMC6577019
PMID: 8027778  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4001. J Histochem Cytochem. 1994 Jul;42(7):877-84.

Video image analysis of labile zinc in viable pancreatic islet cells using a
specific fluorescent probe for zinc.

Zalewski PD(1), Millard SH, Forbes IJ, Kapaniris O, Slavotinek A, Betts WH, Ward 
AD, Lincoln SF, Mahadevan I.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Adelaide, South Australia.

We used an intracellular zinc-specific fluorophore, Zinquin, in conjunction with 
fluorescence video image analysis, to reveal labile zinc in pancreatic islet
cells, which concentrate this metal for use in synthesis, storage, and secretion 
of insulin. Zinquin vividly demonstrated zinc in the islet cell secretory
granules, which formed a brightly labeled crescent in the cytoplasm between one
side of the nucleus and the plasma membrane. Lower but still appreciable amounts 
of zinc were detected in the remaining cytoplasm, but there was little labeling
in the nucleus. Fluorescence intensity varied among islet cells, suggesting
differences in zinc content. Their average fluorescence intensity greatly
surpassed that of the surrounding pancreatic acinar cells in frozen sections of
pancreas and in all other types of cell studied, including lymphocytes,
neutrophils, fibroblasts, and erythrocytes. Less labile zinc was detected in
cells of the mouse insulinoma cell line NIT-1, regardless of whether they were
maintained in long-term culture in the presence or absence of exogenous
extracellular zinc. Exposure of islet or insulinoma cells to a high concentration
of glucose or other secretagogue decreased the content of labile zinc. Zinquin
should be a useful probe for revealing changes in zinc homeostasis in islet
B-cells that may be important in their dysfunction and death during diabetes.

DOI: 10.1177/42.7.8014471 
PMID: 8014471  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

