

4001. J Histochem Cytochem. 1994 Jul;42(7):877-84.

Video image analysis of labile zinc in viable pancreatic islet cells using a
specific fluorescent probe for zinc.

Zalewski PD(1), Millard SH, Forbes IJ, Kapaniris O, Slavotinek A, Betts WH, Ward 
AD, Lincoln SF, Mahadevan I.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Adelaide, South Australia.

We used an intracellular zinc-specific fluorophore, Zinquin, in conjunction with 
fluorescence video image analysis, to reveal labile zinc in pancreatic islet
cells, which concentrate this metal for use in synthesis, storage, and secretion 
of insulin. Zinquin vividly demonstrated zinc in the islet cell secretory
granules, which formed a brightly labeled crescent in the cytoplasm between one
side of the nucleus and the plasma membrane. Lower but still appreciable amounts 
of zinc were detected in the remaining cytoplasm, but there was little labeling
in the nucleus. Fluorescence intensity varied among islet cells, suggesting
differences in zinc content. Their average fluorescence intensity greatly
surpassed that of the surrounding pancreatic acinar cells in frozen sections of
pancreas and in all other types of cell studied, including lymphocytes,
neutrophils, fibroblasts, and erythrocytes. Less labile zinc was detected in
cells of the mouse insulinoma cell line NIT-1, regardless of whether they were
maintained in long-term culture in the presence or absence of exogenous
extracellular zinc. Exposure of islet or insulinoma cells to a high concentration
of glucose or other secretagogue decreased the content of labile zinc. Zinquin
should be a useful probe for revealing changes in zinc homeostasis in islet
B-cells that may be important in their dysfunction and death during diabetes.

DOI: 10.1177/42.7.8014471 
PMID: 8014471  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4002. Virology. 1994 Jul;202(1):16-24.

Modulation of vimentin, the CD40 activation antigen and Burkitt's lymphoma
antigen (CD77) by the Epstein-Barr virus nuclear antigen EBNA-4.

Silins SL(1), Sculley TB.

Author information: 
(1)Queensland Institute of Medical Research, Bancroft Centre, Brisbane, Australia
4029.

The growth transformation of human B cells by Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) is
controlled by the coordinate expression of 10 latent viral genes. This
transforming capacity is believed to be fundamental to the involvement of the
virus in human malignancies of B cell origin. EBV-negative Burkitt's lymphoma
(dG75) clones stably expressing one of these EBV-coded antigens, EBNA-4, have
been established using an episomal-based plasmid. EBNA-4 expression was found to 
upregulate the cytoskeletal protein vimentin as well as surface expression of the
activation antigen CD40. In addition, the presence of EBNA-4 resulted in
downregulation of the Burkitt's lymphoma-associated antigen (BLA/CD77). These
studies show for the first time that EBNA-4 modulates the expression of several
cellular genes implicated in cell-growth transformation.

DOI: 10.1006/viro.1994.1317 
PMID: 8009829  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

