

4005. Toxicol Pathol. 1994 Jul-Aug;22(4):440-5.

Spontaneous adrenal and hepatic myelolipomas in the common marmoset.

Kakinuma C(1), Harada T, Watanabe M, Shibutani Y.

Author information: 
(1)Toxicology Laboratory, Mochida Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., Shizuoka, Japan.

Myelolipomas occurring simultaneously in the adrenal and liver were found in a
2.7-yr-old, bred female common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). The animal bore
single adrenal and multiple hepatic myelolipomas. The adrenal myelolipoma
consisted of mature adipose cells and focal collections of normal hematopoietic
elements and was unencapsulated. In the liver, the myelolipomas, which were
partially encapsulated, included a large amount of hematopoietic tissue and
adipose cells that resembled normal bone marrow cells in various ways.
Additionally, one of the multiple nodules contained several bony spicules with
osteoblasts. Furthermore, there were invasive figures of hematopoietic cells,
such as myeloblasts, erythroblasts, and megakaryocytes, in the hepatic sinusoids 
around the lesions. Thus, this case has some unusual morphological
characteristics and is the first report, to our knowledge, on multiorganic
myelolipomas in common marmosets.

DOI: 10.1177/019262339402200410 
PMID: 7817133  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4006. Rev Latinoam Microbiol. 1994 Jul-Sep;36(3):159-62.

In vitro activity of two beta-lactam antibiotics against strains of the
Bacteroides fragilis group isolated from humans and from Callithrix penicillata
marmosets.

Avila-Campos MJ(1), de Carvalho MA, Veiga-Damasceno CA, Osório-Cisalpino E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, Universidade de São Paulo, Brasil.

The purpose of this study was to determine the in vitro activity of cefoxitin and
imipenem against strains of the Bacteroides fragilis group isolated from the
intestinal tract of humans and Callithrix penicillata marmosets. The majority of 
the human and marmosets B. fragilis strains was resistant to cefoxitin. The
percentages of resistance to cefoxitin among B. fragilis marmoset strains were
higher than those of human origin. On the other hand, the majority of the other
Bacteroides of the B. fragilis group isolated from human and marmosets were
susceptible to this drug. Imipenem was the most effective beta-lactam drug in
this study, and we detected no resistance.


PMID: 7709091  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

