

4006. Rev Latinoam Microbiol. 1994 Jul-Sep;36(3):159-62.

In vitro activity of two beta-lactam antibiotics against strains of the
Bacteroides fragilis group isolated from humans and from Callithrix penicillata
marmosets.

Avila-Campos MJ(1), de Carvalho MA, Veiga-Damasceno CA, Osório-Cisalpino E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, Universidade de São Paulo, Brasil.

The purpose of this study was to determine the in vitro activity of cefoxitin and
imipenem against strains of the Bacteroides fragilis group isolated from the
intestinal tract of humans and Callithrix penicillata marmosets. The majority of 
the human and marmosets B. fragilis strains was resistant to cefoxitin. The
percentages of resistance to cefoxitin among B. fragilis marmoset strains were
higher than those of human origin. On the other hand, the majority of the other
Bacteroides of the B. fragilis group isolated from human and marmosets were
susceptible to this drug. Imipenem was the most effective beta-lactam drug in
this study, and we detected no resistance.


PMID: 7709091  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4007. Int J Cancer. 1994 Jul 1;58(1):123-8.

A novel strategy of c-myc oncogene in NK activity regulation not related to the
W6/32 MHC class-I epitope.

La Cava A(1), Carbone E, Moscarella A, Barcová M, Salzano S, Zappacosta S,
Fontana S.

Author information: 
(1)Dipartimento di Biologia e Patologia Cellulare e Molecolare, Università di
Napoli Federico II, Italy.

The c-myc gene encodes a nuclear protein whose precise function is still not
fully understood. Introduction of a c-myc gene into a number of cell lines leads 
to an increase in their susceptibility to NK-cell lysis. It was reported earlier 
that c-myc can induce a decrease in the membrane expression of the MHC class-I
molecules and this may be one of the factors that render target cells relatively 
more susceptible to NK lysis. In this contribution, we show, in a human LCL line 
transfected with a constitutively active c-myc gene, an increased sensitivity to 
NK lysis, which correlates with an augmented effector-target binding ability of
c-myc-transfected LCLs and with a high ICAM-I expression rather than with
down-regulation of MHC class-I W6/32 epitope expression.

DOI: 10.1002/ijc.2910580120 
PMID: 7516924  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

