

4009. Hypertension. 1994 Jun;23(6 Pt 2):857-60.

Vasoconstrictor action of angiotensin I-convertase and the synthetic substrate
(Pro11,D-Ala12)-angiotensin I.

Mangiapane ML(1), Rauch AL, MacAndrew JT, Ellery SS, Hoover KW, Knight DR,
Johnson HA, Magee WP, Cushing DJ, Buchholz RA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cardiovascular and Metabolic Diseases, Pfizer Inc, Groton, CT
06340.

A chymase (also referred to as angiotensin I-convertase) specific for the
conversion of angiotensin (Ang) I to Ang II has been identified in human heart.
This serine protease is also present in dog and marmoset vasculature. We examined
the vasoconstrictor effects of Ang II putatively generated from an
angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE)-resistant convertase synthetic substrate
(SUB) in vivo and in vitro. In marmosets, SUB (7 to 700 micrograms/kg i.v.) or
Ang I (0.1 to 30 micrograms/kg) caused similar dose-dependent increases in mean
arterial pressure (10 to 100 mm Hg) and decreases in heart rate. Pressor effects 
of SUB were slightly attenuated at low (but not high) doses by captopril (CAP, 1 
mg/kg i.v.) and blocked by losartan (5 mg/kg i.v.); in contrast Ang I pressor
effects were substantially blocked by both. In isolated canine superior
mesenteric artery, Ang I-induced contraction was eliminated by losartan and
reduced but not eliminated by 10 mumol/L CAP. When combined with the serine
protease inhibitor chymostatin, CAP eliminated Ang I-induced contraction, but
chymostatin alone had no effect. SUB-induced contraction was not blocked by CAP
but was equally blocked by chymostatin (25 mumol/L) alone or by the combination
of CAP (10 mumol/L) and chymostatin (25 mumol/L); losartan (10 mumol/L)
eliminated SUB-induced responses. Previous studies have suggested that Ang
I-convertase is important for production of Ang II in the heart. Our results are 
consistent with a potential role for Ang I-convertase in the production of Ang II
in the vasculature, resulting in Ang II-mediated vasoconstriction.

DOI: 10.1161/01.hyp.23.6.857 
PMID: 8206618  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4010. Biol Reprod. 1994 Jun;50(6):1394-402.

Differential control of immunoreactive alpha-inhibin and progesterone production 
by marmoset luteal cells in vitro: evidence for a paracrine action of
alpha-inhibin on basal and gonadotropin-stimulated progesterone production.

Webley GE(1), Marsden PL, Knight PG.

Author information: 
(1)MRC/AFRC Comparative Physiology Group, Institute of Zoology, Regent's Park,
London, United Kingdom.

There is an increase in plasma concentrations of immunoreactive (ir) inhibin
unaccompanied by a rise in plasma progesterone during early pregnancy in the
marmoset monkey. We investigated the potential involvement of hCG and
prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) in stimulating a selective increase in inhibin
concentrations by measuring the production of ir-alpha-inhibin and progesterone
by dispersed luteal cells cultured under serum-free conditions. After one day,
hCG had no effect on progesterone production by the cells but stimulated a
significant increase (p < 0.05) in alpha-inhibin production. PGE2 significantly
increased progesterone production (p < 0.001) but inhibited the production of
alpha-inhibin (p < 0.001). After three days of culture, output of alpha-inhibin
fell to low levels and no significant effect of hCG or PGE2 was detected.
Progesterone also fell with time in culture, but hCG maintained production
resulting in a significant increase above control levels (p < 0.001). The
addition of low density lipoproteins (LDL) to the culture medium increased
progesterone production (p < 0.001) while decreasing alpha-inhibin production (p 
< 0.01). Immunoneutralization of endogenous alpha-inhibin resulted in a
significant decrease in both basal (p < 0.05) and gonadotropin-stimulated (p <
0.05) progesterone concentrations. These results provide further evidence for
differential control of progesterone and alpha-inhibin production by marmoset
luteal cells and show that hCG can selectively stimulate alpha-inhibin
production. In addition, alpha-inhibin may have a local paracrine action in the
marmoset CL, enhancing both basal and gonadotropin-stimulated progesterone
secretion.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod50.6.1394 
PMID: 8080927  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

