

4010. Biol Reprod. 1994 Jun;50(6):1394-402.

Differential control of immunoreactive alpha-inhibin and progesterone production 
by marmoset luteal cells in vitro: evidence for a paracrine action of
alpha-inhibin on basal and gonadotropin-stimulated progesterone production.

Webley GE(1), Marsden PL, Knight PG.

Author information: 
(1)MRC/AFRC Comparative Physiology Group, Institute of Zoology, Regent's Park,
London, United Kingdom.

There is an increase in plasma concentrations of immunoreactive (ir) inhibin
unaccompanied by a rise in plasma progesterone during early pregnancy in the
marmoset monkey. We investigated the potential involvement of hCG and
prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) in stimulating a selective increase in inhibin
concentrations by measuring the production of ir-alpha-inhibin and progesterone
by dispersed luteal cells cultured under serum-free conditions. After one day,
hCG had no effect on progesterone production by the cells but stimulated a
significant increase (p < 0.05) in alpha-inhibin production. PGE2 significantly
increased progesterone production (p < 0.001) but inhibited the production of
alpha-inhibin (p < 0.001). After three days of culture, output of alpha-inhibin
fell to low levels and no significant effect of hCG or PGE2 was detected.
Progesterone also fell with time in culture, but hCG maintained production
resulting in a significant increase above control levels (p < 0.001). The
addition of low density lipoproteins (LDL) to the culture medium increased
progesterone production (p < 0.001) while decreasing alpha-inhibin production (p 
< 0.01). Immunoneutralization of endogenous alpha-inhibin resulted in a
significant decrease in both basal (p < 0.05) and gonadotropin-stimulated (p <
0.05) progesterone concentrations. These results provide further evidence for
differential control of progesterone and alpha-inhibin production by marmoset
luteal cells and show that hCG can selectively stimulate alpha-inhibin
production. In addition, alpha-inhibin may have a local paracrine action in the
marmoset CL, enhancing both basal and gonadotropin-stimulated progesterone
secretion.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod50.6.1394 
PMID: 8080927  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4011. J Endocrinol. 1994 Jun;141(3):439-47.

Blockade of the neonatal rise in testosterone by a gonadotrophin-releasing
hormone antagonist: effects on timing of puberty and sexual behaviour in the male
marmoset monkey.

Lunn SF(1), Recio R, Morris K, Fraser HM.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Reproductive Biology Unit, Centre for Reproductive Biology, Edinburgh, UK.

In primates, plasma testosterone concentrations are elevated for some 3 months
from birth. The function of this rise is uncertain, but studies in rats suggest
that its prevention by castration or administration of gonadotrophin
hormone-releasing hormone (GnRH) analogues has effects on development and
expression of social and sexual behaviours, and adverse long-term effects on
fertility. The consequences of suppression of this rise in testosterone by
treatment with the GnRH antagonist antide have been investigated in the marmoset 
monkey. Eight sets of male:male twins were used, one of each set receiving s.c.
injections of antide (10 mg/kg), on days 0, 3 and 7, then weekly from birth to 98
days of age, with the twin receiving vehicle only. Plasma samples were taken at
weekly intervals for the determination of testosterone concentrations from birth 
until 2 years of age. Treatment with antide completely abolished the neonatal
rise in testosterone seen in control animals. The timing of the onset of the
pubertal testosterone rise was not significantly affected by treatment; however, 
the subsequent pattern of circulating testosterone showed a tendency to decreased
plasma concentrations in the neonatally treated group from weeks 25 to 42,
relative to controls, and this difference was significant between 43 and 70
weeks. This was associated with a similar depression in bioactive LH
concentrations around this time. Thereafter, the testosterone concentrations were
similar between treated and control groups. There was no effect of treatment on
growth, based on sequential body weight data. At 20 months the animals underwent 
behaviour tests with ovariectomized females.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1677/joe.0.1410439 
PMID: 8071642  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

