

4015. Panminerva Med. 1994 Jun;36(2):53-6.

Mitochondrial abnormalities in nigral neurons of the marmoset and Macaca
fascicularis treated with MPTP.

Levi AC(1), Ravazzani R, de Mattei M.

Author information: 
(1)Dipartimento di Anatomia e Fisiologia, Università degli Studi di Torino,
Italy.

In a previous study we observed the processes determining the cellular death in
nigral neurons of Macaca fascicularis and common Marmoset treated with MPTP. The 
purpose of this study is to consider, in substantia nigra neurons of the same
animals, mitochondrial abnormalities caused by neurotoxin. Three Macaca
fascicularis and 5 common Marmosets, respectively treated with 3 and 4 mg/kg of
MPTP dissolved in saline + 10% ethanol, were suppressed by means of an i.v.
injection phenobarbital. The substantia nigra, isolated from the mesencephalon,
has been examined under Electron Microscope. Different mitochondrial
abnormalities have been observed in nigral neurons: crystal abnormalities occur
more frequently than other alterations. They are correlated with various degrees 
of mitochondrial enlargement. Dissolution of the matrix induces formation of
spherical highly electron-dense inclusions of various volume and in different
number; they are probably lipoprotein. Laminar bodies and myelin-like figures are
determined by alterations of the external membrane. Particular roundish
organules, placed near normal mitochondria, are limited by fragments of membrane 
with a granular material, occasionally flowing in the cytoplasm. The biochemical 
hypothesis concerning the genesis of the observed abnormalities is discussed in
the present study.


PMID: 7831058  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4016. Biol Reprod. 1994 Jun;50(6):1216-22.

Oxytocin gene expression and oxytocin immunoactivity in the ovary of the common
marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus).

Einspanier A(1), Ivell R, Rune G, Hodges JK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Reproductive Biology, German Primate Centre, Göttingen.

Oxytocin was identified in ovaries recovered on Day 5 (+/- 1) of the luteal phase
from three female marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus). With use of a reverse
transcription-polymerase chain reaction assay, expression of mRNA for oxytocin
and oxytocin receptor was detected in both luteal tissue and in the ovarian
remnant. Evidence for ovarian synthesis of oxytocin was provided by
immunohistochemistry, which showed positive staining for oxytocin and neurophysin
in the cytoplasm of the luteal cells. Some luteal cells had a more intensely
stained perinuclear region than others for oxytocin immunoreactivity, whereas the
staining for neurophysin was evenly distributed. Granulosa and theca cells of
antral follicles also showed positive staining for oxytocin immunoreactivity; no 
reactivity was found in fibroblast or endothelial cells. Oxytocin
immunoreactivity was also detected in the luteal tissue of all animals by
immunoassay, with values ranging from 2.8 to 12.1 ng/g wet weight. The oxytocin
concentration for the ovarian remnant was either very low (0.55-0.75 ng/g wet
weight) or nondetectable (< 0.5 ng/g wet weight). Local production of oxytocin
within the ovary was suggested by the measurement of higher oxytocin
concentrations in the blood from ovaries containing corpora lutea compared with
peripheral blood. Collectively, these results provide evidence for ovarian
biosynthesis of oxytocin and suggest the possibility of a paracrine role in the
regulation of primate ovarian function.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod50.6.1216 
PMID: 7521674  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

