

4019. Carcinogenesis. 1994 May;15(5):829-36.

Contribution of CYP1A1 and CYP1A2 to the activation of heterocyclic amines in
monkeys and human.

Edwards RJ(1), Murray BP, Murray S, Schulz T, Neubert D, Gant TW, Thorgeirsson
SS, Boobis AR, Davies DS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Pharmacology, Royal Postgraduate Medical School,
London, UK.

The activation of heterocyclic amines to mutagenic products by hepatic microsomal
fractions from cynomolgus monkey, marmoset monkey and man was compared with the
respective levels of cytochrome P450 enzymes CYP1A1 and CYP1A2. The rate of
activation of 2-amino-3,8-dimethylimidazo[4,5-f] quinoxaline (MeIQx),
2-amino-3-methylimidazo[4,5-f]quinoline (IQ) and
2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP) to mutagens by hepatic
microsomal fraction from cynomolgus monkey was very low. This was associated with
a lack of constitutive expression of CYP1A1 and CYP1A2. In contrast, human
hepatic microsomal fraction readily activates these heterocyclic amines and this 
is associated with constitutive expression of CYP1A2. Treatment of cynomolgus
monkey with 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) causes a very modest
induction of CYP1A2, and a small increase in the activation of MeIQx and IQ.
However, there was marked induction of CYP1A1 which was accompanied by > 10-fold 
increases in PhIP activation and 7-ethoxyresorufin O-deethylase (EROD),
7-methoxyresorufin O-demethylase (MROD) and aryl hydrocarbon hydroxylase
activities. Following treatment of cynomolgus monkey with 3-methylcholanthrene,
induction of CYP1A1, but not CYP1A2, was evident. In untreated marmoset monkey
the activations of MeIQx and PhIP, as well as phenacetin O-deethylase, EROD, MROD
and aryl hydrocarbon hydroxylase activities, are similar to those in man,
although the activations of IQ and coumarin 7-hydroxylase activity are lower than
in man. The presence of constitutive CYP1A2, and the absence of CYP1A1, in the
liver of this species correspond to the situation in man. Treatment of marmoset
monkey with TCDD results in increased CYP1A2 levels (4-fold), accompanied by
proportional increases in the activation of MeIQx and IQ and phenacetin
O-deethylase, EROD and MROD activities. The activation of PhIP is increased
disproportionately, by 8-fold, most likely due to the activity of CYP1A1 which is
also induced by TCDD in this species. Overall, the hepatic metabolism of
heterocyclic amines by CYP1A enzymes in the untreated marmoset monkey resembles
that in human more closely than that in the cynomolgus monkey. Therefore,
marmoset monkey may be a more suitable model than the cynomolgus monkey for
carcinogenicity studies involving MeIQx and PhIP, but not IQ.

DOI: 10.1093/carcin/15.5.829 
PMID: 8200083  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4020. J Neurosci. 1994 May;14(5 Pt 1):2531-44.

6-Hydroxydopamine lesions of the prefrontal cortex in monkeys enhance performance
on an analog of the Wisconsin Card Sort Test: possible interactions with
subcortical dopamine.

Roberts AC(1), De Salvia MA, Wilkinson LS, Collins P, Muir JL, Everitt BJ,
Robbins TW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, University of Cambridge, United
Kingdom.

The effects of 6-hydroxydopamine lesions of the prefrontal cortex in monkeys were
investigated on two cognitive tests of prefrontal function, spatial delayed
response, and attentional set shifting. The latter test provided a componential
analysis of the Wisconsin Card Sort Test, a commonly used clinical test of
frontal lobe function in man. Acquisition of a visual compound discrimination
requiring a shift of attention from one dimension to another (extradimensional
shift), for example, shapes to lines, was significantly improved. This
enhancement was behaviorally specific in that there were no effects on
acquisition of a discrimination that required the continued maintenance of an
attentional set toward one particular dimension (intradimensional shift), nor any
effects on a series of visual or spatial discrimination reversals that involved
the repeated shifting of responding between two exemplars from the same
dimension. In contrast, spatial delayed response performance was impaired, in
agreement with previous results. Neurochemical measures showed a marked depletion
of dopamine limited to the prefrontal cortex and a smaller loss of prefrontal
noradrenaline. This was accompanied by a long-term adaptive change in the
striatum such that extracellular dopamine in the caudate nucleus, as measured by 
in vivo microdialysis, was elevated in response to potassium stimulation as long 
as 18 months postsurgery. It is proposed that attentional set shifting is
mediated by a balanced interaction between prefrontal and striatal dopamine, and 
that elevated dopamine contributes to the improvement in attentional set-shifting
ability. This interpretation is consistent with the impairment in attentional
set-shifting ability observed in patients with Parkinson's disease or with damage
to the frontal lobes using the same test as used here for infrahuman primates.


PMCID: PMC6577476
PMID: 8182426  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

