

4020. J Neurosci. 1994 May;14(5 Pt 1):2531-44.

6-Hydroxydopamine lesions of the prefrontal cortex in monkeys enhance performance
on an analog of the Wisconsin Card Sort Test: possible interactions with
subcortical dopamine.

Roberts AC(1), De Salvia MA, Wilkinson LS, Collins P, Muir JL, Everitt BJ,
Robbins TW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, University of Cambridge, United
Kingdom.

The effects of 6-hydroxydopamine lesions of the prefrontal cortex in monkeys were
investigated on two cognitive tests of prefrontal function, spatial delayed
response, and attentional set shifting. The latter test provided a componential
analysis of the Wisconsin Card Sort Test, a commonly used clinical test of
frontal lobe function in man. Acquisition of a visual compound discrimination
requiring a shift of attention from one dimension to another (extradimensional
shift), for example, shapes to lines, was significantly improved. This
enhancement was behaviorally specific in that there were no effects on
acquisition of a discrimination that required the continued maintenance of an
attentional set toward one particular dimension (intradimensional shift), nor any
effects on a series of visual or spatial discrimination reversals that involved
the repeated shifting of responding between two exemplars from the same
dimension. In contrast, spatial delayed response performance was impaired, in
agreement with previous results. Neurochemical measures showed a marked depletion
of dopamine limited to the prefrontal cortex and a smaller loss of prefrontal
noradrenaline. This was accompanied by a long-term adaptive change in the
striatum such that extracellular dopamine in the caudate nucleus, as measured by 
in vivo microdialysis, was elevated in response to potassium stimulation as long 
as 18 months postsurgery. It is proposed that attentional set shifting is
mediated by a balanced interaction between prefrontal and striatal dopamine, and 
that elevated dopamine contributes to the improvement in attentional set-shifting
ability. This interpretation is consistent with the impairment in attentional
set-shifting ability observed in patients with Parkinson's disease or with damage
to the frontal lobes using the same test as used here for infrahuman primates.


PMCID: PMC6577476
PMID: 8182426  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4021. Ann Neurol. 1994 May;35(5):513-29.

Human spongiform encephalopathy: the National Institutes of Health series of 300 
cases of experimentally transmitted disease.

Brown P(1), Gibbs CJ Jr, Rodgers-Johnson P, Asher DM, Sulima MP, Bacote A,
Goldfarb LG, Gajdusek DC.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of CNS Studies, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and
Stroke, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892.

We present a synthesis of clinical, neuropathological, and biological details of 
the National Institutes of Health series of 300 experimentally transmitted cases 
of spongiform encephalopathy from among more than 1,000 cases of various
neurological disorders inoculated into nonhuman primates during the past 30
years. The series comprises 278 subjects with Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, of whom 
234 had sporadic, 36 familial, and 8 iatrogenic disease; 18 patients with kuru;
and 4 patients with Gerstmann-Strüssler-Scheinker syndrome. Sporadic
Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, numerically by far the most important representative, 
showed an average age at onset of 60 years, with the frequent early appearance of
cerebellar and visual/oculomotor signs, and a broad spectrum of clinical features
during the subsequent course of illness, which was usually fatal in less than 6
months. Characteristic spongiform neuropathology was present in all but 2
subjects. Microscopically visible kuru-type amyloid plaques were found in 5% of
patients with Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, 75% of those with kuru, and 100% of
those with Gerstmann-Sträussler-Scheinker syndrome; brain biopsy was diagnostic
in 95% of cases later confirmed at autopsy, and proteinase-resistant amyloid
protein was identified in Western blots of brain extracts from 88% of tested
subjects. Experimental transmission rates were highest for iatrogenic
Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (100%), kuru (95%), and sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob
disease (90%), and considerably lower for most familial forms of disease (68%).
Incubation periods as well as the durations and character of illness showed great
variability, even in animals receiving the same inoculum, mirroring the spectrum 
of clinical profiles seen in human disease. Infectivity reached average levels of
nearly 10(5) median lethal doses/gm of brain tissue, but was only irregularly
present (and at much lower levels) in tissues outside the brain, and, except for 
cerebrospinal fluid, was never detected in bodily secretions or excretions.

DOI: 10.1002/ana.410350504 
PMID: 8179297  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

