

4026. Eur J Biochem. 1994 Apr 1;221(1):53-62.

Molecular evolution of alanine/glyoxylate aminotransferase 1 intracellular
targeting. Analysis of the feline gene.

Lumb MJ(1), Purdue PE, Danpure CJ.

Author information: 
(1)Biochemical Genetics Research Group, MRC Clinical Research Centre, Harrow,
England.

The subcellular distribution of hepatic alanine:glyoxylate aminotransferase 1
(AGT) has changed, under the influence of dietary selection pressure, on several 
o occasions during the evolution of mammals. In some species (e.g. human and
rabbit) AGT is entirely peroxisomal; in other species (e.g. marmoset and rat)
this enzyme is found in similar amounts in peroxisomes and mitochondria; in yet
other species (e.g. cat) it is mainly mitochondrial. The molecular basis of the
species-specific dual intracellular targeting of AGT has been partially
elucidated in the human and rabbit (as examples of the first group), and in the
rat and marmoset (as examples of the second group). As part of a wider study on
the molecular evolution of AGT intracellular targeting, we report in the present 
paper the results of an investigation into the molecular basis of the subcellular
distribution of AGT in the cat (as an example of the third group). Cat liver AGT 
cDNA has been cloned and sequenced, and shown to have a high degree of similarity
to AGT from human, rabbit, marmoset and rat. Southern-blotting analysis showed
that AGT in the cat is probably encoded by a single gene, as it is in other
species. Transcript analysis by RNase protection indicated that almost all of the
AGT mRNA would possess an open reading frame encoding a polypeptide of 414 amino 
acids and a molecular mass of 45,508 Da. The N-terminal 22 amino acids comprised 
the putative mitochondrial-targeting sequence (by analogy with the equivalent
sequence in marmoset and rat pre-mitochondrial AGT). The very low level of
peroxisomal AGT in cat liver is compatible with the absence of any
RNase-protected transcripts initiating downstream of the first putative
translation initiation codon (i.e. absence of any transcripts in which the
mitochondrial-targeting sequence is excluded from the open reading frame). In
vitro studies showed that the 45 kDa polypeptide was imported into rat liver
mitochondria and processed to a mature protein of approximately 43 kDa,
compatible with the cleavage of the N-terminal 22 amino acids, as is also the
case in rat and marmoset. A polypeptide in which the N-terminal 22 amino acids
was absent could not be imported into mitochondria in vitro.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1432-1033.1994.tb18714.x 
PMID: 8168541  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4027. Glycobiology. 1994 Apr;4(2):193-201.

Defining the minimal size of catalytically active primate alpha 1,3
galactosyltransferase: structure-function studies on the recombinant truncated
enzyme.

Henion TR(1), Macher BA, Anaraki F, Galili U.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Medical College of Pennsylvania,
Philadelphia 19129.

The glycosylation enzyme alpha 1,3 galactosyltransferase, which synthesizes the
carbohydrate Gal alpha 1-3Gal beta 1-4GlcNAc-R, is active in non-primate mammals,
prosimians and New World monkeys, but not in Old World monkeys, apes and humans. 
In this study, we have cloned and sequenced the enzyme expressed in a New World
monkey, determined the exact size of the stem region and assessed the minimal
size of catalytically active alpha 1,3 galactosyltransferase (alpha 1,3GT).
Various primer sets were used in the polymerase chain reaction to generate cDNAs 
which coded for forms of alpha 1,3GT with deletions at the N- or C-terminal
domains. The cDNA was inserted into the expression vector pPROTA which contains
the coding sequence for protein A, and subsequently transfected into COS cells.
The soluble chimeric products (truncated enzyme and protein A) were harvested
from the cell culture medium using IgG-Sepharose beads and assayed for enzymatic 
activity. As many as 67 amino acids could be truncated at the amino terminal
region of the luminal portion of the enzyme without affecting its catalytic
activity. Truncation of 68, 69 and 74 amino acids resulted in a 50, 75 and > 95% 
loss in the in vitro catalytic actively, respectively. Introduction of a
frameshift mutation which is characteristic of apes and human alpha 1,3GT gene
resulted in the complete loss of enzyme activity. Moreover, truncation of as few 
as three amino acids at the carboxyl end of alpha 1,3GT resulted in complete loss
of the catalytic activity.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1093/glycob/4.2.193 
PMID: 8054718  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

