

4030. Biol Reprod. 1994 Mar;50(3):502-9.

Immunohistological localization of clusterin in the male genital tract in humans 
and marmosets.

O'Bryan MK(1), Mallidis C, Murphy BF, Baker HW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, St. Vincent's Hospital, Parkville, Victoria,
Australia.

Clusterin is a multifunctional protein, first described in the reproductive
tracts of the rat and the ram. It is produced by several cell types and exists in
at least two differentially glycosylated forms. The aim of this study was to
extend knowledge of clusterin expression in the primate (human and marmoset) male
reproductive tracts by means of clusterin-specific immunohistochemical
techniques. In both normal and abnormal testicular tissue, clusterin was found in
association with Sertoli cells, lumenal sperm, proacrosomal Golgi complexes,
residual bodies, and degenerating germ cells. The major differences observed
between the two groups were attributable primarily to morphological differences
rather than to clusterin expression specifically. There was no correlation
between testicular clusterin content and the cause and severity of spermatogenic 
disorders. Within normal epididymides, regional differences in clusterin staining
similar to those reported in the rat were observed. The seminal vesicles
contained large amounts of positive clusterin staining, whereas normal human
prostate was completely negative. Low levels of clusterin expression were
observed in the marmoset prostate. This study suggests that clusterin is an
important and widespread product in the human and marmoset reproductive tracts
and is likely to have a role in spermatogenesis.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod50.3.502 
PMID: 8167221  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4031. Diagn Mol Pathol. 1994 Mar;3(1):15-21.

Primers frequently used for detecting the t(14;18) major breakpoint also amplify 
Epstein-Barr viral DNA.

Segal GH(1), Scott M, Jorgensen T, Braylan RC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of Florida College
of Medicine, Gainesville.

We observed a potentially misinterpretable polymerase chain reaction (PCR)
amplification product generated with standard primers used to detect the major
breakpoint region (mbr) of chromosomal translocation t(14;18). This unexpected
phenomenon was initially detected during attempts to transform follicular
lymphomas in vitro with Epstein-Barr virus (EBV). Additional studies were
performed using the EBV-producing cell line MCUV5, cell lines from
EBV-transformed normal B-lymphocytes, and an excised lymph node from a patient
with documented EBV-associated infectious mononucleosis. These samples
consistently produced a 167-base pair product, which was indistinguishable from a
t(14;18) lymphoma product when viewed on ethidium bromide-stained gels. Through
DNA sequencing and gene bank analysis, the product was identified as a portion of
the EBV genome. A mbr-specific 20-base oligonucleotide probe was able to
discriminate between true translocations and the EBV-related amplifications.
These results underscore the importance of employing a specific detection system,
and comprehensively screening primers when working with PCR.

DOI: 10.1097/00019606-199403010-00004 
PMID: 8162250  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

