

4043. Am J Primatol. 1994;34(2):199-219. doi: 10.1002/ajp.1350340210.

Phylogenetic approach to the study of tamarin and marmoset social systems.

Garber PA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anthropology, University of Illinois, Urbana.

Tamarins and marmosets (subfamily: Callitrichinae) are members of an ecologically
and behaviorally diverse radiation of small-bodied New World monkeys
characterized by the production of twin offspring, intense female reproductive
competition, reproductive suppression, cooperative infant care and evidence of
what has been described as a highly flexible system of mating. In this review, I 
offer a phylogenetic approach to the study of callitrichine reproduction and
mating systems. Beginning with the assumption that Callimico most closely
resembles the ancestral tamarin and marmoset condition, I identify a set of
primitive callitrichine behavioral and reproductive character states and
reconstruct the sequence of derived behavioral and reproductive changes that
define the basic social systems of Saguinus, Leontopithecus, Callithrix, and
Cebuella. It is proposed that ancestral callitrichines lived in small multimale
multifemale groups characterized by 1 or more reproductively active females, a
single offspring at birth, rapid postnatal growth, delayed nonmaternal
caregiving, and a polygynous mating pattern. The evolution of twinning in the
common ancestor of all extant tamarins and marmosets increased the overall costs 
of infant care, resulting in enhanced female reproductive competition and a
greater role for group members in providing for the young. Specialized mechanisms
of female reproductive competition appear to have evolved twice in callitrichine 
evolution. In the lineage leading to Leontopithecus, high levels of female
intrasexual aggression and ovulatory synchrony play a primary role in the social 
control of fertility. In Saguinus, Callithrix, and Cebuella, female reproductive 
suppression has a stronger physiological basis, resulting in hormonally mediated 
infertility in subordinate adult females. In addition to having important
implications for understanding differences in callitrichine breeding systems,
these data suggest that Leontopithecus separated from the callitrichin line prior
to the radiation of other tamarin and marmoset taxa. © 1994 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

Copyright © 1994 Wiley‐Liss, Inc., A Wiley Company.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.1350340210 
PMID: 31936973 


4044. Am J Primatol. 1994;34(2):133-143. doi: 10.1002/ajp.1350340205.

Relative energetic cost of infant care in small-bodied neotropical primates and
its relation to infant-care patterns.

Tardif SD(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anthropology, University of Tennessee, Knoxville.

Small neotropical primates display an array of infant-care patterns, including
maternal care, paternal care, and care by non-mothers, both male and female. The 
high energetic cost of infant care has frequently been proposed as the primary
determinant of the need for caregivers other than the mother in these species.
This report examines the evidence regarding cost associated with infant care in
Aotus, Callicebus, Saimiri, Callimico, Saguinus and Callithrix genera with adult 
weights of less than 2 kg. The energetic costs of lactation (estimated from
infant growth data) and transport (estimated from relative infant weight and
travel patterns of each species) are lowest for Aotus and Callicebus, highest for
Saguinus and Callithrix (when they rear twins), and intermediate for Saimiri and 
Callimico. When these costs are compared to the extent that mothers relinquish
care to others, there is no clear relation; that is, the energetic cost of infant
care is a relatively poor predictor of the apparent "need" for additional
caregivers. Additional factors are proposed which better explain the infant-care 
patterns displayed by these species; these factors include (1) differences in the
relative cost that infant care places on foraging efficiency. These differences
are proposed to relate to differences in need for concealment as an anti-predator
strategy; (2) differences in availability of suitable helpers; (3) differences in
nursing frequency, such that the smallest, fastest growing species are more
limited in the extent to which mothers may relinquish infant carrying to others. 
© 1994 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

Copyright © 1994 Wiley‐Liss, Inc., A Wiley Company.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.1350340205 
PMID: 31936968 

