

4047. Am J Primatol. 1994;32(3):215-222. doi: 10.1002/ajp.1350320308.

Absence of thyroid hormone resistance in vitamin D-;resistant new world primates.

Arbelle JE(1), Gacad MA(1), Spencer CA(2), Adams JS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Endocrinology, Mineral Metabolism Laboratory, Cedars-Sinai Medical
Center, UCLA School of Medicine, Los Angeles, California.
(2)Clinical Research Center, Department of Medicine, University of Southern
California, Los Angeles, California.

New World primates express a form of sterol/steroid resistance resulting from the
presence of a 58-60 kDa intracellular protein (IDBP) which competes with nuclear 
receptor proteins for binding of vitamin D metabolites and sex steroids. As the
thyroid hormone receptor is a recognized member of the steroid/retinoid/vitamin D
receptor gene superfamily, we sought to confirm previous data describing the
existence of thyronine resistance in New World primate species and to determine
whether IDBP was capable of binding ligands which confer transcriptional
regulatory potential on thyroid hormone-retinoid heterodimeric complexes.
Circulating thyroid hormone levels were compared between vitamin D-resistant New 
World primates and nonresistant Old World primates. Total triiodothyronine (T3), 
free T3 index, and free thyroxine were not different between New World and Old
World primates. Thyroxine was significantly lower (P < 0.03) in New World than in
Old World primates. T3 (1 pM-1μM), 9-cis retinoic acid (100 nM) and all-trans
retinoic acid (100 nM) were incapable of displacing 2 nM [3H]25-hydroxyvitamin D3
from IDBP extracted from B95-8 cells, a B-lymphoblastoid cell line derived from
the vitamin D-resistant New World primate Callithrix jacchus. We conclude that
the sterol/steroid-resistant state characteristic of many genera of New World
primates does not extend to thyroid hormones and that the IDBP responsible for
vitamin D resistance does not bind T3, 9-cis retinoic acid, and all-trans
retinoic acid. © 1994 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

Copyright © 1994 Wiley‐Liss, Inc., A Wiley Company.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.1350320308 
PMID: 31936922 


4048. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 1994 Jan;78(1):121-5.

Gonadotropin-releasing hormone antagonist for postpartum contraception: outcome
for the mother and male offspring in the marmoset.

Fraser HM(1), Recio R, Conn PM, Lunn SF.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council Reproductive Biology Unit, Center for Reproductive
Biology, Edinburgh, United Kingdom.

GnRH antagonists have potential for use in postpartum contraception, as it is
likely that they would be effective in maintaining the inhibition of ovulation
associated with lactation, but possible effects on the infant by transfer of
antagonist via breast milk are unknown. The aim of this study was to establish
whether chronic treatment with a GnRH antagonist would prevent ovulation
throughout the period of lactation using the marmoset monkey as a model and to
evaluate the effects of the presence of GnRH antagonist in breast milk on the
postnatal rise in plasma testosterone concentrations in male infants. Mothers who
had delivered male twins were selected. Starting within 3 days postpartum,
mothers (n = 5/group) were treated with either 6.0 or 0.6 mg/kg of the GnRH
antagonist antide, sc, once per week for 11 weeks. Ten postpartum lactating
females acted as controls. All animals were housed in family groups with fertile 
males. To determine possible effects on the postnatal rise in testosterone,
plasma samples were collected from the male infants of the high dose
antide-treated mothers at weekly intervals for 12 weeks. Plasma progesterone
concentrations were monitored in lactating mothers until establishment of
pregnancy in both treated and control groups. Concentrations of antide were
determined by RIA in plasma from mothers in the high dose group, in their milk,
and in pooled plasma samples from their infants. Ovulation followed by pregnancy 
occurred in all of the control animals. No ovulations occurred during treatment
with antide. Antide was present throughout treatment in plasma and breast milk in
the mother. In male infants feeding from mothers receiving high dose treatment,
antide was not detectable in infant plasma, and plasma testosterone
concentrations were within the normal range for male neonates in our colony.
These results indicate that the GnRH antagonist has potential as a method of
contraception postpartum without affecting the postnatal rise in testosterone in 
male infants.

DOI: 10.1210/jcem.78.1.8288695 
PMID: 8288695  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

