

4048. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 1994 Jan;78(1):121-5.

Gonadotropin-releasing hormone antagonist for postpartum contraception: outcome
for the mother and male offspring in the marmoset.

Fraser HM(1), Recio R, Conn PM, Lunn SF.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council Reproductive Biology Unit, Center for Reproductive
Biology, Edinburgh, United Kingdom.

GnRH antagonists have potential for use in postpartum contraception, as it is
likely that they would be effective in maintaining the inhibition of ovulation
associated with lactation, but possible effects on the infant by transfer of
antagonist via breast milk are unknown. The aim of this study was to establish
whether chronic treatment with a GnRH antagonist would prevent ovulation
throughout the period of lactation using the marmoset monkey as a model and to
evaluate the effects of the presence of GnRH antagonist in breast milk on the
postnatal rise in plasma testosterone concentrations in male infants. Mothers who
had delivered male twins were selected. Starting within 3 days postpartum,
mothers (n = 5/group) were treated with either 6.0 or 0.6 mg/kg of the GnRH
antagonist antide, sc, once per week for 11 weeks. Ten postpartum lactating
females acted as controls. All animals were housed in family groups with fertile 
males. To determine possible effects on the postnatal rise in testosterone,
plasma samples were collected from the male infants of the high dose
antide-treated mothers at weekly intervals for 12 weeks. Plasma progesterone
concentrations were monitored in lactating mothers until establishment of
pregnancy in both treated and control groups. Concentrations of antide were
determined by RIA in plasma from mothers in the high dose group, in their milk,
and in pooled plasma samples from their infants. Ovulation followed by pregnancy 
occurred in all of the control animals. No ovulations occurred during treatment
with antide. Antide was present throughout treatment in plasma and breast milk in
the mother. In male infants feeding from mothers receiving high dose treatment,
antide was not detectable in infant plasma, and plasma testosterone
concentrations were within the normal range for male neonates in our colony.
These results indicate that the GnRH antagonist has potential as a method of
contraception postpartum without affecting the postnatal rise in testosterone in 
male infants.

DOI: 10.1210/jcem.78.1.8288695 
PMID: 8288695  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4049. Fundam Appl Toxicol. 1994 Jan;22(1):58-64.

Lack of peroxisome proliferation in marmoset liver following treatment with
ciprofibrate for 3 years.

Graham MJ(1), Wilson SA, Winham MA, Spencer AJ, Rees JA, Old SL, Bonner FW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Toxicology, Sterling Winthrop Pharmaceuticals Research Division,
Alnwick, Northumberland, United Kingdom.

The effect of treatment of marmosets with ciprofibrate for 3 years on activities 
of hepatic enzymes, hepatic histomorphology, and ultrastructure were
investigated. Male and female marmosets were dosed with ciprofibrate (2, 10, and 
20 mg/kg) by oral gavage once daily for 3 years. No effect on liver weight
(adjusted for body weight) or liver morphology was observed. The activities of
catalase, glutathione peroxidase, alpha-glycerophosphate dehydrogenase,
benzphetamine N-demethylase, and ethoxyresorufin O-deethylase were unaffected by 
treatment with ciprofibrate. Activity of glutathione transferase was increased in
the low dosage group but unaffected in the mid and high dosage groups. Modest
increases in activities of peroxisomal beta-oxidation (2.5-fold, maximal),
carnitine acetyl transferase (1.7-fold, maximal), and carnitine palmitoyl
transferase (2-fold, maximal) were observed. Cytochemical staining and
quantitative image analysis failed to indicate any effect on peroxisomal number, 
size, or volume density. Similarly, there was no increase in lipofuscin
deposition. This study provides data on the effects of a potent peroxisome
proliferator on primate liver following a dosing period much greater than that
used in previously published studies and is further evidence that the marmoset is
relatively insensitive to the well-documented effects that ciprofibrate and other
peroxisome proliferators have on rat liver.

DOI: 10.1006/faat.1994.1008 
PMID: 8125214  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

