

4053. Folia Histochem Cytobiol. 1994;32(1):3-10.

Light microscopic visualization of semicarbazide-sensitive amine oxidase
(benzylamine oxidase) using a cerium method.

Nakos G(1), Gossrau R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, Free University of Berlin, Germany.

Light microscopic histochemical studies to visualize semicarbazide-sensitive and 
H2O2-generating amine oxidase (SSAOX, benzylamine oxidase, BAOX; EC 1.4.3.6?) are
usually performed with the coupled peroxidatic oxidation technique of Ryder et
al. [25]. For methodological reasons this procedure has its limitations and was
therefore replaced by a more reliable and easier to perform cerium-DAB-H2O2-Co
technique. With this method SSAOX was studied in many organs of various
laboratory rodents and marmosets and in human placenta. Independent of the
species the enzyme was present mostly in the plasma membrane of nearly all
vascular and non-vascular smooth muscle cells. However, there was a
species-dependence of SSOX activity; the highest amounts of stain were found in
gerbils and marmosets. In addition, the enzyme was found in these two species in 
the capillary endothelium of some extra-nervous tissues. The plasma membrane
localization of SSAOX and plasma membrane-associated H2O2 production suggest a
functional role for the enzyme different from that of other amine oxidases which 
appear to be primarily involved in intracellular amine detoxification or
degradation.


PMID: 8026600  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4054. Arch Toxicol. 1994;68(3):203-5.

Embryotoxic effects of thalidomide derivatives in the non-human primate
Callithrix jacchus. 5. Lack of teratogenic effects of phthalimidophthalmide.

Klug S(1), Felies A, St체rje H, Nogueira AC, Neubert R, Frankus E.

Author information: 
(1)Universit채tsklinikum Rudolf Virchow, Freie Universit채t Berlin, Institut f체r
Toxikologie und Embryopharmakologie, Germany.

The teratogenic potency of the thalidomide (Thd) derivative
phthalimidophthalimide (Phtpht) was assessed in the common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus), by oral administration of the relatively high daily dose of 50 mg
Phtpht/kg body wt, during the susceptible period (days 48-61 of pregnancy). Since
in this species daily doses of only 100 micrograms/kg body wt of the Thd
derivative EM12 already induce typical gross structural abnormalities in nearly
100% of the fetuses, investigations with a small number of these New World
monkeys allow a rough estimation of the teratogenic potency of Thd-type
substances. Macroscopic inspection and skeletal evaluation of ten fetuses gave no
indication of dysmorphogenesis following treatment with Phtpht. We conclude that 
Phtpht has little, if any, Thd-type teratogenic potency in this non-human
primate.

DOI: 10.1007/s002040050055 
PMID: 8024468  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

