

4061. Eur J Histochem. 1994;38(1):13-22.

Light microscopic visualization of diamine oxidase using a cerium method.

Nakos G(1), Gossrau R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, Free University of Berlin, Germany.

Diamine oxidase (DAOX) can be localized in the light microscope using
immunohistochemistry, but a reliable procedure for detecting the activity of the 
enzyme does not exist. A method was thus developed in which cerium ions trap
H2O2, generated by DAOX, and a diaminobenzidine-H2O2-Co sequence serves for the
visualization of the primary reaction product cerium perhydroxide. With this
method and diamine substrates cadaverine or putrescine, or polyamine substrates
spermidine or spermine as substrates, DAOX was localized species-independently
but substrate-dependently in the basolateral cytoplasm and/or plasma membrane of 
small intestinal enterocytes of rats, mice and gerbils. Less, or even no, final
reaction product was seen in these cells of guinea-pigs and marmosets. Colonic
enterocytes were positive for DAOX solely in gerbils. Furthermore,
species-dependent diamine oxidase was present in special cells of the mouse and
guinea-pig kidney, immune organs and liver of rats and gerbils, marmoset placenta
and in decidual cells of the human, rat and mouse placenta.


PMID: 7517727  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4062. Ann Neurol. 1994;36 Suppl:S157-62.

Prevention strategies for multiple sclerosis.

Hauser SL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University of California-San Francisco 94143-0114.

The design of effective prevention strategies for multiple sclerosis (MS) is
hampered by ignorance of the basic pathophysiology of the disease. An
understanding of specific immune mechanisms, the nature of genetic
susceptibility, and environmental triggers will permit rational decision making
from among the many proposed therapeutic directions available. It is reasonable
to hypothesize that inhibition of central nervous system inflammation will be of 
benefit in MS, regardless of the trigger (autoantigen, exogenous antigen, or
nonspecific trigger). Emerging concepts are reviewed to provide guideposts for
the design of rational therapy for MS.

DOI: 10.1002/ana.410360738 
PMID: 7517124  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

