

4068. Naunyn Schmiedebergs Arch Pharmacol. 1993 Dec;348(6):586-92.

The competitive NMDA antagonist CPP protects substantia nigra neurons from
MPTP-induced degeneration in primates.

Lange KW(1), Löschmann PA, Sofic E, Burg M, Horowski R, Kalveram KT, Wachtel H,
Riederer P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Neurochemistry, University of Würzburg, Germany.

Degeneration of nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons is the primary
histopathological feature of Parkinson's disease. The neurotoxin MPTP
(1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine) induces a neurological syndrome in
man and non-human primates very similar to idiopathic Parkinson's disease by
selectively destroying dopaminergic nigrostriatal neurons. This gives rise to the
hypothesis that Parkinson's disease may be caused by endogenous or environmental 
toxins. Endogenous excitatory amino acids (EAAs) such as L-glutamate could be
involved in neurodegenerative disorders including Parkinson's disease. We report 
in this study that the competitive NMDA antagonist CPP
(3-((+/-)-2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl)-propyl-1-phosphonic acid) protects nigral
tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) positive neurons from degeneration induced by systemic 
treatment with MPTP in common marmosets. This indicates that EAAs are involved in
the pathophysiological cascade of MPTP-induced neuronal cell death and that EAA
antagonists may offer a neuroprotective therapy for Parkinson's disease.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00167234 
PMID: 7907775  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4069. Ecotoxicol Environ Saf. 1993 Dec;26(3):293-301.

The neuropathology of trimethyltin in the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus)
hippocampal formation.

Gozzo S(1), Perretta G, Monaco V, Andreozzi U, Rossiello E.

Author information: 
(1)Istituto di Medicina Sperimentale, CNR, C/o ENEA, Rome, Italy.

The effects of single and repeated doses of trimethyltin (TMT) treatment on the
central nervous system (CNS) of the marmoset were investigated. For the
acute-dose experiment adult animals were administered 3 mg/kg of TMT chloride
(ip) and were then observed for changes in behavior. Within 24 hr postinjection
all animals developed tremors, ataxia, and unresponsiveness. Half of the animals 
had severe clinical deterioration and died at 2 to 3 days following treatment.
Surviving marmosets were sacrificed and the brain was subsequently
perfusion-fixed for light microscopic examination. Neuronal degeneration was
observed in many cells of the Ammon's horn and fascia dentata of the hippocampus.
For the chronic-dose experiment, adult marmosets received (ip) weekly doses of
0.75 mg/kg of TMT chloride for 24 weeks. No evident clinical signs or behavioral 
changes were observed in any of the treated animals. Histological examination
revealed neuropathological changes comparatively similar but less severe than
those observed in the acute-treated animals. The differences in toxicity effects 
between acute and chronic TMT administration are compared and discussed.

DOI: 10.1006/eesa.1993.1058 
PMID: 7507820  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

