

4069. Ecotoxicol Environ Saf. 1993 Dec;26(3):293-301.

The neuropathology of trimethyltin in the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus)
hippocampal formation.

Gozzo S(1), Perretta G, Monaco V, Andreozzi U, Rossiello E.

Author information: 
(1)Istituto di Medicina Sperimentale, CNR, C/o ENEA, Rome, Italy.

The effects of single and repeated doses of trimethyltin (TMT) treatment on the
central nervous system (CNS) of the marmoset were investigated. For the
acute-dose experiment adult animals were administered 3 mg/kg of TMT chloride
(ip) and were then observed for changes in behavior. Within 24 hr postinjection
all animals developed tremors, ataxia, and unresponsiveness. Half of the animals 
had severe clinical deterioration and died at 2 to 3 days following treatment.
Surviving marmosets were sacrificed and the brain was subsequently
perfusion-fixed for light microscopic examination. Neuronal degeneration was
observed in many cells of the Ammon's horn and fascia dentata of the hippocampus.
For the chronic-dose experiment, adult marmosets received (ip) weekly doses of
0.75 mg/kg of TMT chloride for 24 weeks. No evident clinical signs or behavioral 
changes were observed in any of the treated animals. Histological examination
revealed neuropathological changes comparatively similar but less severe than
those observed in the acute-treated animals. The differences in toxicity effects 
between acute and chronic TMT administration are compared and discussed.

DOI: 10.1006/eesa.1993.1058 
PMID: 7507820  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4070. Brain Res. 1993 Nov 19;628(1-2):56-64.

Cognitive inflexibility after archicortical and paleocortical prefrontal lesions 
in marmosets.

Ridley RM(1), Durnford LJ, Baker JA, Baker HF.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Psychiatry, Clinical Research Centre, Harrow, UK.

The behaviour and cognitive abilities of marmosets with bilateral ablations of
either the archicortex on the mediodorsal surface or the paleocortex on the
ventrolateral surface of the frontal lobes were assessed in terms of the types of
information being handled, the mode of action (inhibitory versus productive
mechanisms), and the level of functioning of these frontal areas. Although there 
was a tendency for the ventrolateral ablation to produce a greater impairment on 
object than on spatial discrimination in comparison to the mediodorsal ablation, 
the differences between the two groups was not marked in this respect. The effect
of ablations of either of these areas was more marked on tasks which required the
inhibition of prepotent responses than on tasks where novel or arbitrary
responses were appropriate. The major effect of both lesions was the production
of perseverative behaviour which occurred at the level of motor output in the
first few days after surgery but was then observed at the level of choice
behaviour and attentional set in formal cognitive tests. Impairments were also
seen on postoperative retention of tasks learnt prior to surgery. It is suggested
that all these impairments arise from an inability to use or modify stored
information.

DOI: 10.1016/0006-8993(93)90937-i 
PMID: 8313170  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

