

4077. Int J Exp Pathol. 1993 Oct;74(5):441-54.

Evidence for the experimental transmission of cerebral beta-amyloidosis to
primates.

Baker HF(1), Ridley RM, Duchen LW, Crow TJ, Bruton CJ.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Psychiatry, Clinical Research Centre, Harrow, UK.

The brains of three marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) injected intracerebrally 6-7
years earlier with brain tissue from a patient with early onset Alzheimer's
disease were found to contain moderate numbers of amyloid plaques with associated
argyrophilic dystrophic neurites and cerebral amyloid angiopathy but no
neurofibrillary tangles. The plaques and vascular amyloid stained positively with
antibodies to beta (A4)-protein. The brains of three age-matched control
marmosets from the same colony did not show these neuropathological features. The
brain of one of two marmosets injected with brain tissue from a patient with
prion disease with concomitant beta-amyloid plaques and cerebral amyloid
angiopathy also showed beta-amyloid plaques and angiopathy but no spongiform
encephalopathy. An occasional plaque was found in the brains of two of four
marmosets injected with brain tissue from three elderly patients with age-related
pathology, two of whom had an additional diagnosis of possible prion disease.
Neither plaques nor cerebral amyloid angiopathy were found in six other marmosets
who were older than the injected animals, in 12 further marmosets who were
slightly younger but who had been injected several years previously with brain
tissue which did not contain beta-amyloid, or in 10 younger marmosets who had
been subjected to various neurosurgical procedures. These results suggest that
cerebral beta-amyloidosis may be induced by the introduction of exogenous amyloid
beta-protein.


PMCID: PMC2002177
PMID: 8217779  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4078. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 1993 Sep 24;695:274-7.

Behavioral effects of cholinergic grafts.

Ridley RM(1), Baker HF.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Psychiatry, MRC Clinical Research Centre, Harrow, Middlesex,
United Kingdom.

Experimental work in animals and, to a more limited extent, in humans, has
demonstrated that the cholinergic system is involved in mechanisms which control 
learning and memory. Since there is cholinergic loss in a variety of dementing
illnesses, any treatment designed to alleviate the mental symptoms of these
diseases must address the issue of cholinergic dysfunction even if other
treatments are also required to overcome other neurotransmitter imbalances. Work 
in rodents has demonstrated that cholinergic-rich fetal neural tissue transplants
can, under certain circumstances, alleviate the behavioral effects of cholinergic
lesions or of cholinergic decline associated with aging. More complex cognitive
testing can be achieved using primates and, in this case, the common marmoset is 
a suitable species to use because its rapid and reliable reproductive rate aids
the provision of appropriate transplant tissue. Marmosets with transection of the
fornix are deprived of a cholinergic input into the dentate gyrus, posterior
hippocampus and entorhinal cortex and are specifically impaired on learning tasks
which require remembering a rule of responding (non-evaluative memory).
Transplantation of cholinergic-rich fetal septal tissue into the hippocampus of
such animals completely restores their ability to learn this type of task,
whereas transplantation of cholinergic-poor fetal hippocampal tissue into the
same area produces no such improvements. These results demonstrate that where a
learning impairment is produced by a relatively simple procedure which has a
major effect on one neurotransmitter, that function can be restored by
transplantation of tissue containing that neurotransmitter even where the
impairment consists of a very "high level" cognitive dysfunction.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.1993.tb23066.x 
PMID: 8239295  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

