

4079. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 1993 Sep 24;695:228-31.

Experimental induction of beta-amyloid plaques and cerebral angiopathy in
primates.

Baker HF(1), Ridley RM, Duchen LW, Crow TJ, Bruton CJ.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Psychiatry, Clinical Research Centre, Harrow, United Kingdom.

Moderate numbers of amyloid plaques with associated argyrophilic dystrophic
neurites and cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA) but no neurofibrillary tangles
(NFTs) were found in the brains of 3 middle-aged common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus) inoculated intracerebrally (i.c.) 6-7 years earlier with brain tissue
from a patient with early onset Alzheimer's disease. The plaques and vascular
amyloid stained positively with antibodies to beta (A4)-protein. The brains of 3 
age-matched control marmosets from the same colony did not show these
neuropathological features. beta-amyloid plaques and CAA (but no spongiform
encephalopathy) were also found in the brain of a marmoset inoculated with brain 
tissue from a patient with prion disease with concomitant beta-amyloid plaques
and CAA. An occasional beta-amyloid plaque was found in the brains of two
marmosets inoculated with brain tissue from elderly patients. No beta-amyloid
plaques nor CAA were found in 6 other marmosets who were older than the
inoculated marmosets, 10 further marmosets who were slightly younger but who had 
been inoculated several years previously with brain tissue which did not contain 
beta-amyloid, and 10 younger marmosets who had been subjected to various
neurosurgical procedures. These results suggest that beta-amyloidosis is a
transmissible process.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.1993.tb23057.x 
PMID: 8239287  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4080. Biol Reprod. 1993 Sep;49(3):568-76.

Developmental changes in marmoset granulosa cell responsiveness to insulin-like
growth factor-I: interactions with follicle-stimulating hormone and estradiol.

Shaw HJ(1), Boddy SE, Hodges JK.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Zoology, Zoological Society of London, Regent's Park.

The biological actions of insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) on granulosa cell 
steroidogenesis at defined stages of preovulatory follicular development in the
marmoset monkey were examined. Studies were carried out by primary cell culture
of granulosa cells derived from small antral (0.5-1.mm diameter) and large
preovulatory (2-3.mm diameter) follicles collected during the mid-late follicular
phase of the ovarian cycle. IGF-I (0.3-100 ng/ml) had no effect on progesterone
accumulation or aromatase activity during 48-h culture of granulosa cells from
small follicles. Progesterone accumulation by cells from large follicles was also
unaffected by IGF-I over the same time period, although aromatase activity was
stimulated in a dose-dependent manner (18-fold increase over basal levels with a 
maximally stimulatory dose of 30 ng IGF-I/ml). In contrast, granulosa cells from 
small and large follicles responded to IGF-I in terms of both progesterone
accumulation and aromatase activity after longer periods of culture (4 days for
progesterone; 6 days for aromatase). Concurrent treatment of granulosa cells from
small follicles with estradiol (10(-7) M) enhanced the dose-dependent actions of 
IGF-I on both indices of steroidogenesis and advanced the time at which IGF-I
stimulated activity was first detectable. The effects of estradiol on granulosa
cell IGF-I responsiveness were independent of cell number. A synergistic action
of IGF-I on FSH-stimulated granulosa cell steroidogenesis was not
apparent.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod49.3.568 
PMID: 8399851  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

