

4083. J Neurochem. 1993 Sep;61(3):804-11.

Antibodies raised against synthetic peptides react with choline acetyltransferase
in various immunoassays and in immunohistochemistry.

Benecke S(1), Ostermann-Latif C, Mäder M, Schmidt B, Unger JW, Westarp ME,
Felgenhauer K.

Author information: 
(1)Neurologische Klinik, Universität Göttingen, F.R.G.

Antisera were raised in rabbits against five synthetic peptides. These peptides
have been identified as potentially antigenic epitopes from the sequence of
porcine choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) using primary and secondary structure
analysis. All five antisera recognized immunoaffinity-purified antigen from
porcine brain in an ELISA and on western blots. Four antisera recognized ChAT on 
dot blots, and another four antisera reacted with native and degraded enzyme in a
sandwich ELISA using monoclonal antibodies as the capture antibody. One peptide
antiserum was of similar avidity in this sandwich ELISA as a polyclonal antibody 
raised against immunoaffinity-purified ChAT. The same antiserum reacted with the 
enzyme from human placenta in an ELISA and on western and dot blots and
recognized ChAT in rat, primate, and human neurons. Thus, a single peptide (amino
acids 168-189) provides the means for easy, reliable, and reproducible generation
of antibodies against ChAT suitable for replacing conventional polyclonal and
monoclonal antibodies.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1471-4159.1993.tb03590.x 
PMID: 8360685  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4084. J Reprod Fertil. 1993 Sep;99(1):243-51.

Measurement of faecal steroids for monitoring ovarian function in New World
primates, Callitrichidae.

Heistermann M(1), Tari S, Hodges JK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Reproductive Biology, German Primate Centre, Göttingen.

Measurement of immunoreactive progesterone, pregnanediol and oestradiol in faeces
collected throughout ovarian cycles in three species of callitrichid primates is 
reported. Faecal hormone concentrations were compared with plasma progesterone
profiles during PGF2 alpha-controlled (n = 7) and natural (n = 8) cycles in
Callithrix jacchus and Saguinus fuscicollis, respectively, and with urinary
oestrone conjugates during five cycles in Saguinus oedipus. Unconjugated
steroids, which predominated over enzyme hydrolysable conjugates in samples from 
all species, were used to generate cycle profiles. According to results from
HPLC, oestrone and oestradiol accounted for virtually all oestrogen
immunoreactivity, and oestradiol most often predominated, whereas large amounts
of nonspecific immunoreactivity were detected by both progesterone and
pregnanediol assays. Faecal progestins were excreted in a cyclic manner in all
species; luteal phase values were on average five- to tenfold higher than
corresponding follicular phase values. Significant increases in mean amounts of
faecal progestins were seen within 48 h of the post-ovulatory rise in plasma
progesterone. Although a similar trend was also seen for faecal oestradiol, a
clear and consistent luteal phase increase was seen only in Callithrix jacchus
and this generally occurred later than that of progestins. The results indicate
that faecal progestin analysis provides a useful method for noninvasive
reproductive assessment in callitrichid primates. In particular, measurement of
immunoreactive pregnanediol enables a multispecies application of a single assay 
methodology for comparative studies on callitrichid reproductive function.

DOI: 10.1530/jrf.0.0990243 
PMID: 8283445  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

