

4107. Hypertension. 1993 Jun;21(6 Pt 1):827-35.

Gene expression and tissue localization of the two isoforms of angiotensin I
converting enzyme.

Sibony M(1), Gasc JM, Soubrier F, Alhenc-Gelas F, Corvol P.

Author information: 
(1)INSERM U 36, Paris, France.

Angiotensin converting enzyme exists in two different isoforms, somatic and
germinal, whose respective distributions and intracellular localizations have not
been precisely determined. The differing biochemical and molecular
characteristics of the two isozymes allowed the preparation of antibodies
specific for each of the two angiotensin converting enzyme isoforms and of two
nucleic acid probes, one of which was specific for the germinal isoform.
Immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization were used to determine the cell
distribution of, respectively, the two isoforms and their corresponding messenger
RNAs in the classically studied tissues of male adult humans and marmosets.
Results provided by the two different methods were always concordant and were
identical in the two species. The somatic angiotensin converting enzyme form was 
expressed uniquely in somatic tissues (vascular endothelial cells and at the
brush border of renal proximal convoluted tubule, jejunal villus, and epididymal 
duct epithelia), and the germinal form was expressed uniquely in germinal cells
with a precise stage-specific pattern, starting in round spermatids and finishing
in spermatozoa. In situ hybridization documented the presence of somatic
angiotensin converting enzyme messenger RNA in renal tubule epithelium, jejunal
enterocytes, and epididymal epithelium and demonstrated that there was no direct 
correlation between the levels of angiotensin converting enzyme messenger RNA and
the enzyme it encodes for, i.e., angiotensin converting enzyme, in a given
epithelium. The significance of the ultraselective expression of germinal
angiotensin converting enzyme and of its specific messenger RNA at a very precise
stage of spermatogenesis remains uncertain.

DOI: 10.1161/01.hyp.21.6.827 
PMID: 8388857  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4108. J Vet Med Sci. 1993 Jun;55(3):479-80.

Placental and plasma cystine aminopeptidase in pregnant animals.

Ikenaga H(1), Mizuta Y, Ono K, Sawazaki T, Suzuki N, Tomoda I.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Veterinary Clinical Pathology, School of Veterinary Medicine,
Nippon Veterinary and Animal Science University, Tokyo, Japan.

The placental and plasma cystine aminopeptidase (CAP) in pregnant animals was
examined on stability after the treatment with L-methionine, ethylene diamine
tetra-acetic acid (EDTA) and heat. Inhibitory effects of these treatments on
enzyme activities were different among CAPs from the animal species, however,
significant correlation in those effects between placental and plasma CAPs was
observed. These results suggested that plasma CAP might reflect placental CAP and
seemed to be available for estimating maternal gestational conditions.

DOI: 10.1292/jvms.55.479 
PMID: 8357926  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

