

4108. J Vet Med Sci. 1993 Jun;55(3):479-80.

Placental and plasma cystine aminopeptidase in pregnant animals.

Ikenaga H(1), Mizuta Y, Ono K, Sawazaki T, Suzuki N, Tomoda I.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Veterinary Clinical Pathology, School of Veterinary Medicine,
Nippon Veterinary and Animal Science University, Tokyo, Japan.

The placental and plasma cystine aminopeptidase (CAP) in pregnant animals was
examined on stability after the treatment with L-methionine, ethylene diamine
tetra-acetic acid (EDTA) and heat. Inhibitory effects of these treatments on
enzyme activities were different among CAPs from the animal species, however,
significant correlation in those effects between placental and plasma CAPs was
observed. These results suggested that plasma CAP might reflect placental CAP and
seemed to be available for estimating maternal gestational conditions.

DOI: 10.1292/jvms.55.479 
PMID: 8357926  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4109. Horm Behav. 1993 Jun;27(2):216-30.

Effects of testosterone propionate upon the sexual and aggressive behavior of
adult male marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) castrated as neonates.

Dixson AF(1).

Author information: 
(1)MRC Reproductive Biology Unit, Edinburgh, U.K.

In New World monkeys of the family Callitrichidae (marmosets and tamarins),
females frequently give birth to dizygotic twins. Twins share a placental
circulation throughout fetal development and are hemopoietic chimeras. Despite
this, there is no masculinization (freemartinism) in females which develop next
to a male co-twin. It has been suggested that the organizing effects of
testicular androgen upon sexual differentiation of the brain occur mainly during 
early postnatal development in male callitrichids, rather than in utero. However,
this report demonstrates activation of masculine copulatory behavior by
testosterone propionate (TP) administered to adult male marmosets (N = 8) which
were castrated in infancy (between Days 1-7). Effects of neonatal castration upon
aggressive behavior during pair tests with females (high frequencies of
aggression) and intact adult males (low frequencies of aggression) were also
reversed by TP treatment in adulthood. While early postnatal androgen secretion
plays an important role in behavioral development in marmosets, it appears that a
substantial degree of neural sexual differentiation occurs in utero in males of
this callitrichid species.

DOI: 10.1006/hbeh.1993.1016 
PMID: 8349280  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

