

4109. Horm Behav. 1993 Jun;27(2):216-30.

Effects of testosterone propionate upon the sexual and aggressive behavior of
adult male marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) castrated as neonates.

Dixson AF(1).

Author information: 
(1)MRC Reproductive Biology Unit, Edinburgh, U.K.

In New World monkeys of the family Callitrichidae (marmosets and tamarins),
females frequently give birth to dizygotic twins. Twins share a placental
circulation throughout fetal development and are hemopoietic chimeras. Despite
this, there is no masculinization (freemartinism) in females which develop next
to a male co-twin. It has been suggested that the organizing effects of
testicular androgen upon sexual differentiation of the brain occur mainly during 
early postnatal development in male callitrichids, rather than in utero. However,
this report demonstrates activation of masculine copulatory behavior by
testosterone propionate (TP) administered to adult male marmosets (N = 8) which
were castrated in infancy (between Days 1-7). Effects of neonatal castration upon
aggressive behavior during pair tests with females (high frequencies of
aggression) and intact adult males (low frequencies of aggression) were also
reversed by TP treatment in adulthood. While early postnatal androgen secretion
plays an important role in behavioral development in marmosets, it appears that a
substantial degree of neural sexual differentiation occurs in utero in males of
this callitrichid species.

DOI: 10.1006/hbeh.1993.1016 
PMID: 8349280  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4110. Physiol Behav. 1993 Jun;53(6):1067-76.

Sound levels in rooms housing laboratory animals: an uncontrolled daily variable.

Milligan SR(1), Sales GD, Khirnykh K.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Biomedical Sciences, King's College, Strand, London, UK.

High sound levels are known to have adverse effects on the behaviour and
physiology of laboratory animals, yet their acoustic environment is rarely
monitored. In particular, high-frequency sounds that are above the limit of human
hearing, but are well within the limits of many laboratory species (i.e.,
ultrasounds), are usually ignored. In this study, the acoustic environment of
laboratory animals was investigated in a variety of different animal facilities. 
Sound pressure levels (dB SPL) were monitored for periods up to 24 h over two
frequency ranges: a relatively low range (0.01-12.5 kHz), and a high range
(12.5-70 kHz). While background sound levels in undisturbed situations were
generally low (i.e., below 50 dB SPL), marked increases in sound levels often
occurred during the working day, producing characteristic daily variations in the
sound profile. Peak SPLs commonly reached values of 80-95 dB in the low-frequency
range and 50-75 dB in the higher range. In most cases, sound levels were low over
weekends. The results suggested that human activities were a very important
source of sound in most animal facilities. In a few situations (e.g., rabbits,
marmosets, dogs), the animals themselves provided a significant contribution to
the acoustic environment. It is clear that the acoustic environment of laboratory
animals is a daily variable that is usually uncontrolled and that may have
important implications for behavioural and physiological experiments and for
animal welfare.

DOI: 10.1016/0031-9384(93)90361-i 
PMID: 8346289  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

