

4128. J Reprod Fertil. 1993 Mar;97(2):321-7.

Requirement of inner cell mass for efficient chorionic gonadotrophin secretion by
blastocysts of common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Summers PM(1), Taylor CT, Miller MW.

Author information: 
(1)MRC/AFRC Comparative Physiology Research Group, Institute of Zoology, London, 
UK.

The role of the inner cell mass in the induction of chorionic gonadotrophin
synthesis and secretion by the trophoblast of the peri-implantation primate
blastocyst was studied in common marmoset monkeys. An in vitro system for the
culture of blastocysts commencing with blastocysts collected 8 days after
conception was developed. Chorionic gonadotrophin measured in the spent culture
fluid was first detected in most blastocysts after 3 or 4 days (day 11 or 12) of 
culture at a time equivalent to implantation in vitro. Initial secretion of
chorionic gonadotrophin coincided with development of parietal endoderm and
histological appearance of syncytiotrophoblast in the polar trophoblast. Little
chorionic gonadotrophin was secreted by blastocysts with a poorly developed, or
absent, inner cell mass. Mural trophoblast removed from blastocysts after 2 days 
of culture (day 10) grew in vitro as a unilaminar vesicle but failed to secrete
significant amounts of chorionic gonadotrophin. However, mural trophoblast from
older blastocysts (days 13 and 14) after chorionic gonadotrophin secretion had
commenced continued to secrete chorionic gonadotrophin, with trophoblast from day
14 blastocysts secreting significantly more than that from day 13. It was
concluded from these studies that while mural trophoblast from marmoset
blastocysts will proliferate in vitro in the absence of an inner cell mass,
efficient induction of chorionic gonadotrophin secretion requires the presence of
the inner cell mass or its derivatives. Once chorionic gonadotrophin secretion
has commenced, secretion will continue in the absence of the inner cell mass.

DOI: 10.1530/jrf.0.0970321 
PMID: 8501702  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4129. Naunyn Schmiedebergs Arch Pharmacol. 1993 Mar;347(3):306-12.

Anorectic effect and brain concentrations of D-fenfluramine in the marmoset:
relationship to the in vivo and in vitro effects on serotonergic mechanisms.

Caccia S(1), Anelli M, Fracasso C, Frittoli E, Giorcelli P, Gobbi M, Taddei C,
Garattini S, Mennini T.

Author information: 
(1)Istituto di Ricerche Farmacologiche Mario Negri, Milan, Italy.

The present study investigated the anorectic activity of d-fenfluramine (d-F) and
the relationship with brain levels of unchanged drug and its metabolite
d-norfenfluramine (d-NF) in marmosets, relating them to neurochemical effects on 
the serotoninergic system. d-F and d-NF were equally active in reducing food
intake (ED50 about 3 mg/kg, p.o.). However, the brain concentrations of the
metabolite required to reduce food intake after synthetic d-NF were more than
twice those after d-F, indicating that d-NF contributes to but does not
completely explain the anorectic effect of d-F. At this dose d-F did not
appreciably modify the serotonin (5-HT) and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic (5-HIAA)
contents of the brain regions examined, except for a slight enhancement of 5-HIAA
in hippocampus. In vitro in brain cortical synaptosomes d-F inhibited [3H]5-HT
uptake more potently than d-NF, as in other species. d-F and d-NF showed similar 
potency in stimulating [3H]5-HT release, in a Ca++ dependent manner. The tritium 
released by d-F and d-NF appeared to be mainly unmetabolized [3H]5-HT. Like in
other species the marmoset too has saturable and specific [3H]d-F binding sites, 
for which d-NF has lower affinity. d-F and d-NF have low affinities for 5-HT
receptor subtypes, except that d-NF has appreciable affinity for 5-HT1C and
5-HT1D receptors. Unlike in rodents but similarly to primates in the striatum the
pharmacology of 5-HT receptors seems to correspond to the 5-HT1D
subtype.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1007/BF00167450 
PMID: 8479546  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

