

4133. J Reprod Fertil. 1993 Mar;97(2):425-31.

Roles of cyclic AMP and inositol phosphates in the luteolytic action of
cloprostenol, a prostaglandin F2 alpha analogue, in marmoset monkeys (Callithrix 
jacchus).

Michael AE(1), Webley GE.

Author information: 
(1)MRC/AFRC Comparative Physiology Research Group, Institute of Zoology, London, 
UK.

The luteolytic response to a prostaglandin F2 alpha analogue, cloprostenol, was
investigated in vivo and in vitro at defined stages of the luteal phase. In vivo 
administration of cloprostenol to female marmoset monkeys on day 3 after
ovulation had no effect on plasma progesterone concentrations, whereas
administration on day 14 after ovulation reduced plasma progesterone to
preovulatory concentrations within 4 h. To identify the cellular basis for this
luteolytic action, marmoset luteal tissue obtained on days 3, 6 and 14 after
ovulation was incubated in vitro and progesterone production, cAMP accumulation
and phosphoinositide (PI) turnover measured in response to cloprostenol, human
chorionic gonadotrophin (hCG) with or without cloprostenol, or dibutyryl-cAMP
with or without cloprostenol. Progesterone production was stimulated by both hCG 
and dbcAMP at all stages of the luteal phase. Although neither hCG nor dbcAMP had
any significant effects on PI turnover, hCG also increased cAMP accumulation. In 
marmoset luteal tissue obtained on day 3 after ovulation, cloprostenol had no
significant effect on basal or hCG/dbcAMP-stimulated progesterone production but 
significantly stimulated PI turnover. In contrast, on days 6 and 14 after
ovulation, cloprostenol significantly inhibited hCG- and dbcAMP-stimulated
progesterone production and the cAMP response to hCG, but had no significant
effect on PI turnover. Since progesterone production by the marmoset corpus
luteum depends on the luteotrophic support of luteinizing hormone (LH), these
observations suggest that the luteolytic action of cloprostenol in vivo involves 
the inhibition of LH/hCG action at sites both prior and subsequent to cAMP
accumulation. However, such luteolytic effects do not appear to require the
generation of inositol phosphates by increased PI turnover.

DOI: 10.1530/jrf.0.0970425 
PMID: 8388957  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4134. J Biol Chem. 1993 Feb 25;268(6):3873-9.

Molecular characterization and regulation of the human endothelin receptors.

Elshourbagy NA(1), Korman DR, Wu HL, Sylvester DR, Lee JA, Nuthalaganti P,
Bergsma DJ, Kumar CS, Nambi P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Genetics, SmithKline Beecham Pharmaceuticals, King of 
Prussia, Pennsylvania 19406.

Endothelin receptors (ETRs) are distributed throughout a variety of tissues. Two 
human cDNAs were identified which encode distinct ETR proteins. One cDNA encoded 
a 427-amino acid protein that shared 91% identity to rat ETAR. The second cDNA
encoded a 442-amino acid protein that was 88% identical to rat ETBR. Ligand
binding studies of the cloned receptors expressed in COS cells confirmed that
they were pharmacologically ETAR and ETBR subtypes; although the selective
antagonist BQ123 showed a potency similar to ET-3 in displacing 125I-ET-1 binding
to ETAR. This observation contrasts with rat ETAR pharmacology where BQ123 has a 
100-fold higher affinity than ET3. Chinese hamster ovary cells expressing the
human ETAR displayed equal potencies in displacing 125I-ET-1 binding, which
indicates that rat and human ETAR are pharmacologically distinct.
Electrophysiological studies of both ETRs expressed in Xenopus oocytes revealed
that they are functional. Northern analysis indicated that the two ETRs are
differentially expressed in many tissues. Marmosets maintained on a high fat/high
cholesterol diet exhibited 3-fold increase in ETBR mRNA levels with little change
in ETAR mRNA levels. Availability of cDNA clones for ETR subtypes can open
avenues for future analysis of their role in pathophysiology of various diseases.


PMID: 8440682  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

