

4134. J Biol Chem. 1993 Feb 25;268(6):3873-9.

Molecular characterization and regulation of the human endothelin receptors.

Elshourbagy NA(1), Korman DR, Wu HL, Sylvester DR, Lee JA, Nuthalaganti P,
Bergsma DJ, Kumar CS, Nambi P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Genetics, SmithKline Beecham Pharmaceuticals, King of 
Prussia, Pennsylvania 19406.

Endothelin receptors (ETRs) are distributed throughout a variety of tissues. Two 
human cDNAs were identified which encode distinct ETR proteins. One cDNA encoded 
a 427-amino acid protein that shared 91% identity to rat ETAR. The second cDNA
encoded a 442-amino acid protein that was 88% identical to rat ETBR. Ligand
binding studies of the cloned receptors expressed in COS cells confirmed that
they were pharmacologically ETAR and ETBR subtypes; although the selective
antagonist BQ123 showed a potency similar to ET-3 in displacing 125I-ET-1 binding
to ETAR. This observation contrasts with rat ETAR pharmacology where BQ123 has a 
100-fold higher affinity than ET3. Chinese hamster ovary cells expressing the
human ETAR displayed equal potencies in displacing 125I-ET-1 binding, which
indicates that rat and human ETAR are pharmacologically distinct.
Electrophysiological studies of both ETRs expressed in Xenopus oocytes revealed
that they are functional. Northern analysis indicated that the two ETRs are
differentially expressed in many tissues. Marmosets maintained on a high fat/high
cholesterol diet exhibited 3-fold increase in ETBR mRNA levels with little change
in ETAR mRNA levels. Availability of cDNA clones for ETR subtypes can open
avenues for future analysis of their role in pathophysiology of various diseases.


PMID: 8440682  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4135. Neurosci Lett. 1993 Feb 5;150(1):29-32.

A novel population of tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactive neurones in the basal
forebrain of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Torres EM(1), Rogers DC, Annett LE, Sirinathsinghji DJ, Dunnett SB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, University of Cambridge, UK.

We have observed in the basal forebrain of the common marmoset a group of
neurones which display tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity (THir) with three
different polyclonal antibodies and one monoclonal antibody, and which express TH
mRNA as shown by in situ hybridization histochemistry. The population of cells is
composed of large multipolar neurones and is located predominantly in the
substantia innominata and at the ventral, medial and lateral margins of the
external segment of the globus pallidus. The cell morphology and the distribution
of THir cells corresponds closely to the caudal portion of the nucleus basalis of
Meynert. Adjacent sections demonstrate both THir and choline acetyltransferase
immunoreactivity in the cells in this group, as well as strong
acetylcholinesterase activity but not dopamine immunoreactivity. These
observations indicate that many cholinergic neurones in the posterior nucleus
basalis of Meynert of the marmoset contain tyrosine hydroxylase, and suggest that
both acetylcholine and catecholamine may be synthesised as co-localised
neurotransmitters within the same magnocellular neurones. We observe no THir
cells in similar areas of the basal forebrain of either rhesus or talapoin
monkeys.

DOI: 10.1016/0304-3940(93)90100-y 
PMID: 8097024  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

