

4135. Neurosci Lett. 1993 Feb 5;150(1):29-32.

A novel population of tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactive neurones in the basal
forebrain of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Torres EM(1), Rogers DC, Annett LE, Sirinathsinghji DJ, Dunnett SB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, University of Cambridge, UK.

We have observed in the basal forebrain of the common marmoset a group of
neurones which display tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity (THir) with three
different polyclonal antibodies and one monoclonal antibody, and which express TH
mRNA as shown by in situ hybridization histochemistry. The population of cells is
composed of large multipolar neurones and is located predominantly in the
substantia innominata and at the ventral, medial and lateral margins of the
external segment of the globus pallidus. The cell morphology and the distribution
of THir cells corresponds closely to the caudal portion of the nucleus basalis of
Meynert. Adjacent sections demonstrate both THir and choline acetyltransferase
immunoreactivity in the cells in this group, as well as strong
acetylcholinesterase activity but not dopamine immunoreactivity. These
observations indicate that many cholinergic neurones in the posterior nucleus
basalis of Meynert of the marmoset contain tyrosine hydroxylase, and suggest that
both acetylcholine and catecholamine may be synthesised as co-localised
neurotransmitters within the same magnocellular neurones. We observe no THir
cells in similar areas of the basal forebrain of either rhesus or talapoin
monkeys.

DOI: 10.1016/0304-3940(93)90100-y 
PMID: 8097024  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4136. Neuroscience. 1993 Feb;52(3):595-604.

Stimulus-bound perseveration after frontal ablations in marmosets.

Ridley RM(1), Clark BA, Durnford LJ, Baker HF.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Psychiatry, Clinical Research Centre, Harrow, Middlesex, U.K.

Marmosets with bilateral ablations of either the lateral or ventral surface of
the frontal lobes were found to perseverate on object but not spatial serial
reversal. They also perseverated on reversal of a visuospatial task where
different stimuli required different spatial responses. No differences were found
between the two lesion groups. Since the control animals showed mild
perseveration on spatial but not object serial reversal it is argued that frontal
ablations do not lead to perseveration of a natural tendency but rather that
object and visuospatial perseveration are forms of stimulus-bound behaviour which
do not occur when the animal is performing a spatial task in which stimulus
position is irrelevant. Perseveration was reduced by pretreatment with a
dopamine-blocking drug (haloperidol). It is suggested that information from
temporal lobe mechanisms, involved in long-term memory, and from frontal lobe
mechanisms, which exert shorter acting influences on behaviour, compete within
the basal ganglia to determine stimulus choice. The ascending dopaminergic
pathway may modulate the balance between these competing factors.

DOI: 10.1016/0306-4522(93)90409-9 
PMID: 8450961  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

