

4147. Am J Primatol. 1993;31(3):181-188. doi: 10.1002/ajp.1350310303.

Detection of urinary gonadotropins in callitrichid monkeys with a sensitive
immunoassay based upan a unique monoclonal antibody.

Ziegler TE(1)(2), Matteri RL(2)(3), Wegner FH(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wisconsin.
(2)Department of Wisconsin Regional Primate Research Center, University of
Wisconsin, Madison, Wisconsin.
(3)United States Department of Agriculture, Agricultural Research Service, S-143 
Animal Sciences Research Center, University of Missouri, Columbia, Missouri.

A radioimmunological method for measuring urinary luteinizing hormone (LH) and
chorionic gonadotropin (CG) excretion in the family Callitrichidae is described. 
The method uses a monoclonal antibody that will be available in virtually
unlimited quantity. Several polyclonal antisera that have been useful for the
detection of callitrichid gonadotropins are near depletion. The monoclonal
antibody-based RIA provided similar results when compared with the mouse Leydig
cell bioassay for LH and a previously validated polyclonal antibody-based RIA.
When the monoclonal antibody is used for immunodetection of Saguinus oedipus LH
by non-reducing SDS-PAGE, a single entity is recognized that corresponds with the
molecular weight range of bioactive LH and appears to be in the normal range for 
LH in nonhuman primates. LH and CG were detected by the monoclonal antibody-based
RIA in urine from representatives of species from all genera of callitrichids.
Hormonal profiles of daily urine samples revealed the detection of the
preovulatory LH surge by both RIA methods in the cotton-top tamarin (Saguinus
Oedipus) and pygmy marmoset (Cebuella pygmea) and the increase CG due to
pregnancy in both species. Serial dilutions of midcycle and pregnancy urine from 
Saguinus, Callithrix, Leontopithecus, and Cebuella exhibited parallelism when
compared with our in-house reference standard of rhesus monkey CG. Cultured
Saguinus oedipus pituitary cells showed an increased release of LH when
challenged by gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) providing further support
that the monoclonal antibody-based RIA measures LH in this species. © 1993
Wiley-Liss, Inc.

Copyright © 1993 Wiley‐Liss, Inc., A Wiley Company.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.1350310303 
PMID: 31937000 


4148. Immunogenetics. 1993;38(3):210-22.

Mhc-DRB genes of platyrrhine primates.

Trtková K(1), Kupfermann H, Grahovac B, Mayer WE, O'hUigin C, Tichy H, Bontrop R,
Klein J.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institut für Biologie, Abteilung Immungenetik, Tübingen, Germany.

The two infraorders of anthropoid primates, Platyrrhini (New World monkeys) and
Catarrhini (Old World monkeys and the hominoids) are estimated to have diverged
from a common ancestor 37 million years ago. The major histocompatibility complex
class II DRB gene and haplotype polymorphism of the Catarrhini has been
characterized in several recent studies. The present study was undertaken to
obtain information on the DRB polymorphism of the Platyrrhini. Fifty-five
complete exon 2 DRB sequences were obtained from six species of Platyrrhini
representing both the Callitrichidae and the Cebidae families. Combined with the 
results of a parallel contig mapping study, our data indicate that at least three
loci (DRB1*03, DRB3, and DRB5) are shared by the Catarrhini and the Platyrrhini. 
However, the three loci are occupied by functional genes in the former infraorder
and mostly by pseudogenes in the latter. Instead of the pseudogenes, the
Platyrrhini have evolved a new set of apparently functional genes-DRB11 and
DRB*W12 through DRB*W19, which have thus far not been found in the Catarrhini.
The DRB*W13, *W14, *W15, *W17, *W18, and *W19 genes seem to be restricted to the 
Cebidae family, whereas the DRB*W16 locus has so far been documented in the
Callitrichidae family only. The DRB alleles of the cotton-top tamarin, and
perhaps also those of the common marmoset (both members of the family
Callitrichidae), are characterized by low nucleotide diversity, possibly
indicating that they diverged from a common ancestral gene relatively recently.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00211521 
PMID: 8505064  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

