

4148. Immunogenetics. 1993;38(3):210-22.

Mhc-DRB genes of platyrrhine primates.

Trtková K(1), Kupfermann H, Grahovac B, Mayer WE, O'hUigin C, Tichy H, Bontrop R,
Klein J.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institut für Biologie, Abteilung Immungenetik, Tübingen, Germany.

The two infraorders of anthropoid primates, Platyrrhini (New World monkeys) and
Catarrhini (Old World monkeys and the hominoids) are estimated to have diverged
from a common ancestor 37 million years ago. The major histocompatibility complex
class II DRB gene and haplotype polymorphism of the Catarrhini has been
characterized in several recent studies. The present study was undertaken to
obtain information on the DRB polymorphism of the Platyrrhini. Fifty-five
complete exon 2 DRB sequences were obtained from six species of Platyrrhini
representing both the Callitrichidae and the Cebidae families. Combined with the 
results of a parallel contig mapping study, our data indicate that at least three
loci (DRB1*03, DRB3, and DRB5) are shared by the Catarrhini and the Platyrrhini. 
However, the three loci are occupied by functional genes in the former infraorder
and mostly by pseudogenes in the latter. Instead of the pseudogenes, the
Platyrrhini have evolved a new set of apparently functional genes-DRB11 and
DRB*W12 through DRB*W19, which have thus far not been found in the Catarrhini.
The DRB*W13, *W14, *W15, *W17, *W18, and *W19 genes seem to be restricted to the 
Cebidae family, whereas the DRB*W16 locus has so far been documented in the
Callitrichidae family only. The DRB alleles of the cotton-top tamarin, and
perhaps also those of the common marmoset (both members of the family
Callitrichidae), are characterized by low nucleotide diversity, possibly
indicating that they diverged from a common ancestral gene relatively recently.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00211521 
PMID: 8505064  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4149. J Reprod Fertil. 1993 Jan;97(1):301-10.

Sensory cues and the suppression of reproduction in subordinate female marmoset
monkeys, Callithrix jacchus.

Barrett J(1), Abbott DH, George LM.

Author information: 
(1)MRC/AFRC Comparative Physiology Research Group, Institute of Zoology,
Zoological Society of London, UK.

Subordinate female marmoset monkeys remain anovulatory and have low plasma
concentrations of luteinizing hormone (LH) when maintained with their dominant
females. Olfactory cues from the dominant female have been implicated in
maintaining this reproductive suppression. Subordinate females that received
either ablation of the vomeronasal organ (an accessory olfactory organ; n = 3),
ablation of the main olfactory epithelium (n = 4), or both lesions (n = 5) did
not ovulate in the following 7 weeks while housed with their dominant female.
Plasma LH concentrations following either or both lesions were similar to
pre-lesion concentrations. Olfactory lesions (verified by histological and
behavioural trials) did not impair reproductive activity, as olfactory-lesioned
dominant females underwent ovarian cycles of similar duration to intact dominant 
females. Lesioned subordinate females (n = 6), maintained in visual-only contact 
with their dominant female and group ovulated 29.1 +/- 9.3 days (mean +/- SEM)
after physical separation from their dominant females; this first onset of
ovulation was significantly delayed (P < 0.05) compared with intact subordinate
females completely isolated from their dominant females and group (10.8 +/- 1.3
days, n = 8). Behavioural and visual cues together with olfaction all appear to
play important roles in maintaining the suppression of ovulation in subordinate
female marmoset monkeys.

DOI: 10.1530/jrf.0.0970301 
PMID: 8464022  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

