

4149. J Reprod Fertil. 1993 Jan;97(1):301-10.

Sensory cues and the suppression of reproduction in subordinate female marmoset
monkeys, Callithrix jacchus.

Barrett J(1), Abbott DH, George LM.

Author information: 
(1)MRC/AFRC Comparative Physiology Research Group, Institute of Zoology,
Zoological Society of London, UK.

Subordinate female marmoset monkeys remain anovulatory and have low plasma
concentrations of luteinizing hormone (LH) when maintained with their dominant
females. Olfactory cues from the dominant female have been implicated in
maintaining this reproductive suppression. Subordinate females that received
either ablation of the vomeronasal organ (an accessory olfactory organ; n = 3),
ablation of the main olfactory epithelium (n = 4), or both lesions (n = 5) did
not ovulate in the following 7 weeks while housed with their dominant female.
Plasma LH concentrations following either or both lesions were similar to
pre-lesion concentrations. Olfactory lesions (verified by histological and
behavioural trials) did not impair reproductive activity, as olfactory-lesioned
dominant females underwent ovarian cycles of similar duration to intact dominant 
females. Lesioned subordinate females (n = 6), maintained in visual-only contact 
with their dominant female and group ovulated 29.1 +/- 9.3 days (mean +/- SEM)
after physical separation from their dominant females; this first onset of
ovulation was significantly delayed (P < 0.05) compared with intact subordinate
females completely isolated from their dominant females and group (10.8 +/- 1.3
days, n = 8). Behavioural and visual cues together with olfaction all appear to
play important roles in maintaining the suppression of ovulation in subordinate
female marmoset monkeys.

DOI: 10.1530/jrf.0.0970301 
PMID: 8464022  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4150. Int Rev Exp Pathol. 1993;34 Pt B:73-101.

Comparative pathology of recombinant murine interferon-gamma in mice and
recombinant human interferon-gamma in cynomolgus monkeys.

Terrell TG(1), Green JD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Safety Evaluation Genentech, Inc., South San Francisco,
California 94080.

Interferon-gamma is a highly species-specific cytokine and has the most
restricted host range of activity of the interferons. Recombinant human IFN-gamma
was one of the first species-specific recombinant proteins to be thoroughly
assessed in conventional safety models used for xenobiotics. Acute single-dose
intravenous toxicity studies with rHuIFN-gamma were performed in rats, marmosets,
and squirrel monkeys with no indications of toxicity. A complete series of
subchronic toxicity studies and segment I and II reproductive studies in the rat 
revealed no evidence of toxicity at any of the doses tested. These results
suggested that studies conducted in pharmacologically nonresponsive species may
not be predictive of clinical toxicity. Human IFN-gamma is active on nonhuman
primate cells, though not at the same level as on human cells. Multidose studies 
in cynomolgus monkeys with rHuIFN-gamma for 28 or 90 days were predictive of many
of the dose-limiting clinical toxicities. Qualitative similarity was observed
between toxicity studies employing rHuIFN-gamma in the cynomolgus monkey and
rMuIFN-gamma in the mouse. The adverse effects seen in toxicity studies with
cytokines and growth factors are often exaggerated pharmacological effects of the
molecules, and therefore can only be studied in a responsive species. In
situations in which a high degree of species specificity is encountered, studies 
employing a recombinant protein in a homologous species may provide a useful test
system for preclinical safety assessment.

DOI: 10.1016/b978-0-12-364935-5.50011-0 
PMID: 8458720  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

