

4161. Rev Inst Med Trop Sao Paulo. 1993 Jan-Feb;35(1):107-10.

Antimicrobial resistance and plasmid detection in strains of the Bacteroides
fragilis group.

Avila-Campos MJ(1), de Carvalho MA, Magalhäes PP, Damasceno CA, Chartone-Souza E,
Cisalpino EO.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Microbiologia, Universidade de São Paulo, Brasil.

Resistant populations of the Bacteroides fragilis group bacteria (two reference
ones and two isolated from human and Callithrix penicillata marmoset) were
obtained by the gradient plate technique, to clindamycin, penicillin G,
metronidazole and mercuric chloride. All the four tested strains were originally 
susceptible to the four antimicrobial drugs at the breakpoint used in this study.
MICs determination for the four cultures gave constant values for each
antimicrobial, on the several steps by the gradient plate technique. The
intestinal human B. fragilis strains showed three DNA bands, that could be
representative of only two plasmids in the closed covalently circular (CCC) form 
with molecular weights of approximately 25 and 2.5 Md. The results do not permit 
an association between the presence of plasmid in the human strain with the
susceptibility to the studied drugs. The four strains were beta-lactamase
negative in the two methods used, and no particular chromosomal genetic
resistance marker was demonstrated. The resistance (MIC) observed, after contact 
with penicillin G and mercuric chloride, were two-fold in the four tested
strains.

DOI: 10.1590/s0036-46651993000100016 
PMID: 8278739  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4162. Dev Biol Stand. 1993;80:157-70.

The research programme on transmissible spongiform encephalopathies in Britain
with special reference to bovine spongiform encephalopathy.

Bradley R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Central Veterinary Laboratory, Addlestone, Surrey, UK.

Research into bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE) commenced immediately
following its discovery in November 1986. Formal epidemiological studies
commenced in June 1987 and were part of a large research programme set up mainly 
at the Central Veterinary Laboratory Weybridge and the Institute for Animal
Health, AFRC/MRC Neuropathogenesis Unit in Edinburgh. This programme also covered
the clinicopathology of BSE, transmission studies and molecular chemistry.
Research results have shown that BSE is a member of the group of diseases known
as the sub-acute spongiform encephalopathies caused by unconventional
transmissible agents and which includes scrapie of sheep, from which BSE was
probably derived, and Creutzfeldt Jakob disease (CJD) of man. The agent causing
BSE closely resembles strains of the scrapie agent but is not identical.
Spongiform encephalopathy has developed in sheep, goats, pigs, cattle, marmosets 
and mice but not hamsters following experimental inoculation of brain material
from confirmed clinical cases of BSE. BSE agent has been detected by mouse
bio-assay in brain from cows from several sources confirmed to have BSE.
Infectivity has not been detected in spleen, buffy coat, semen, muscles, placenta
and bone marrow (all following parenteral inoculation) nor in milk/mammary gland,
spleen, placenta and a variety of lymph nodes following substantial oral
exposure. This latter route successfully transmitted disease to mice with
brain/cerebrospinal fluid. The introduction of modified rendering systems, which 
did not employ hydrocarbon solvent extraction, were probably responsible for an
increase in exposure of cattle from 1981-1988 sufficient to cause the disease.
Experiments are in progress to investigate the effectiveness of different
rendering systems used in the European Community and of chemical and physical
de-activating procedures for destroying BSE and scrapie infectivity. A clear
genetic influence on disease susceptibility has been suggested but is not yet
proven. The Agricultural and Food Research Council have set up a large Biology of
Spongiform Encephalopathies Research Programme to address some of the more
fundamental unknowns of this group of diseases but it is too early to report
results. As with scrapie, no epidemiological relationship has been demonstrated
between BSE and the human diseases through the monitoring programme that has been
established by the Department of Health to detect such an occurrence. BSE
research results so far show that controls to protect animal and human health and
based initially on scrapie research findings, are sound.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT
400 WORDS)


PMID: 8270105  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

