

4178. J Virol. 1992 Nov;66(11):6649-54.

cDNA clone of hepatitis A virus encoding a virulent virus: induction of viral
hepatitis by direct nucleic acid transfection of marmosets.

Emerson SU(1), Lewis M, Govindarajan S, Shapiro M, Moskal T, Purcell RH.

Author information: 
(1)Hepatitis Viruses Section, Laboratory of Infectious Diseases, National
Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, Bethesda, Maryland 20892.

Direct inoculation of marmoset livers with an in vitro transcription mixture
containing cDNA and full-length genomic RNA transcripts of hepatitis A virus
resulted in acute viral hepatitis. Elevations in serum levels of liver enzymes
were correlated with appearance of antibody to hepatitis A virus. Genomes of
infectious hepatitis A virus isolated from the feces of transfected marmosets
contained the same mutation as the cDNA template used for transfection. Liver
biopsies confirmed that the virus encoded by the cDNA clone induced
histopathological changes equivalent to those caused by virulent wild-type virus.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.66.11.6649-6654.1992 
PMCID: PMC240161
PMID: 1328684  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4179. J Androl. 1992 Nov-Dec;13(6):560-70.

Ultrastructure of adult and juvenile marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) Sertoli cells 
in vivo and in vitro.

Rune GM(1), Pretzer D, De Souza P, Bollmann U, Merker HJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, Free University of Berlin, Germany.

The morphologic differentiation of Sertoli cells isolated from adult and juvenile
marmosets and cultured on different extracellular matrices was evaluated by light
and electron microscopy and compared to cells in vivo. Both cell types could be
maintained in culture for at least 6 days. The degree of cellular
differentiation, shape, ultrastructural appearance, and polarity seemed to
benefit from laminin-coated substrata, compared with collagen-, fibronectin-,
serum-, and heparan sulfate-coated substrata. With the former two substrates, a
difference in behavior between juvenile and adult cells was evident. Whereas
juvenile cells displayed a lesser degree of differentiation, adult cells
exhibited identical morphologic characteristics in culture and in vivo. Cyclicity
of morphologic features was not found, neither in vivo nor in vitro. The results 
indicate that: (1) laminin plays a unique role for marmoset Sertoli cell
differentiation in vitro compared with other extracellular components; (2) a
greater similarity between cells in vivo and in vitro is evident with adult
Sertoli cells; and (3) the adult marmoset monkey could provide a primate model
for mature Sertoli cells in culture, since there is a close similarity to human
adult Sertoli cells in vitro and in vivo.


PMID: 1293135  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

