

4179. J Androl. 1992 Nov-Dec;13(6):560-70.

Ultrastructure of adult and juvenile marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) Sertoli cells 
in vivo and in vitro.

Rune GM(1), Pretzer D, De Souza P, Bollmann U, Merker HJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, Free University of Berlin, Germany.

The morphologic differentiation of Sertoli cells isolated from adult and juvenile
marmosets and cultured on different extracellular matrices was evaluated by light
and electron microscopy and compared to cells in vivo. Both cell types could be
maintained in culture for at least 6 days. The degree of cellular
differentiation, shape, ultrastructural appearance, and polarity seemed to
benefit from laminin-coated substrata, compared with collagen-, fibronectin-,
serum-, and heparan sulfate-coated substrata. With the former two substrates, a
difference in behavior between juvenile and adult cells was evident. Whereas
juvenile cells displayed a lesser degree of differentiation, adult cells
exhibited identical morphologic characteristics in culture and in vivo. Cyclicity
of morphologic features was not found, neither in vivo nor in vitro. The results 
indicate that: (1) laminin plays a unique role for marmoset Sertoli cell
differentiation in vitro compared with other extracellular components; (2) a
greater similarity between cells in vivo and in vitro is evident with adult
Sertoli cells; and (3) the adult marmoset monkey could provide a primate model
for mature Sertoli cells in culture, since there is a close similarity to human
adult Sertoli cells in vitro and in vivo.


PMID: 1293135  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4180. Indian J Exp Biol. 1992 Nov;30(11):1012-6.

Seminal inhibin--prospects for immunocontraception.

Sheth AR(1), Moodbidri SB, Garde SV, Vanage GR.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Research in Reproduction (ICMR), Bombay, India.

Passive immunization of adult rats, hamsters and marmosets with rabbit
anti-seminal inhibin resulted in complete or partial block of fertility. The
antiserum treatment presumably neutralized endogenous inhibin resulting in an
unopposed rise in circulating FSH. This probably led to a refractoriness of the
testes to FSH resulting in complete spermatogenic arrest. Nevertheless, there was
no change in the mating behaviour of the animals. The antibodies also affected
the epididymal spermatozoa by causing large scale agglutination.


PMID: 1293023  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

