

4188. J Neurosci. 1992 Sep;12(9):3456-65.

Changes in the cortical map of the hand following postnatal ulnar and radial
nerve injury in monkeys: organization and modification of nerve dominance
aggregates.

Wall JT(1), Huerta MF, Kaas JH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, Medical College of Ohio, Toledo 43699.

The ulnar and radial nerves to the hands of 12-31-d-old marmoset monkeys were
transected and ligated, and the monkeys were subsequently reared for periods of
1.4-1.6 years with only median nerve innervation to the hand. Features of
organization in the cortical area 3b hand map were then assessed with
neurophysiological mapping procedures, and compared to features in monkeys that
had undergone either a normal postnatal development with three intact hand
nerves, or an abnormal development with two intact nerves due to postnatal injury
of the median nerve. A systematic comparison of cortical organization in these
monkeys led to three main findings. First, some features of organization show
little or no change when monkeys are reared with one, two, or three hand nerves. 
These features include receptive field size and the overall size of the hand map.
Second, other features are, in contrast, clearly altered in an injury-dependent
manner. These features include cortical neuronal thresholds to light tactile
stimuli, and the spatial location, size, shape, continuity, and somatotopic
interfacing of representations of the parts of the hand. Finally, estimates of
the peripheral innervation territories of the hand nerves, and of the
corresponding distributions of cortical neurons activated by inputs from these
territories, indicate that the normal hand map contains bandlike aggregates of
neurons that are dominantly activated by inputs from each nerve. Postnatal nerve 
injuries alter the size of these nerve dominance aggregates.


PMCID: PMC6575727
PMID: 1527590  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4189. J Neurosci. 1992 Sep;12(9):3445-55.

Changes in the cortical map of the hand following postnatal median nerve injury
in monkeys: modification of somatotopic aggregates.

Wall JT(1), Huerta MF, Kaas JH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, Medical College of Ohio, Toledo 43699.

Median nerves to the hands of 8-15-d-old marmoset monkeys were transected and
precluded from regeneration by ligation. Following periods of 0.4-1.5 years,
features of organization in the cortical area 3b hand map were assessed
neurophysiologically, and compared to features in normally reared monkeys.
Cortical features in monkeys with both histories were similar in certain
respects. (1) Receptive field organization was similar in terms of tactile
thresholds and receptive field size, continuity, and glabrous-hairy specificity. 
(2) Somatotopic organization was similar in terms of the continuity of the
glabrous representation, and progressions of receptive field shifts across some
parts of the hand map. (3) Finally, the overall size of the hand map did not
change. In contrast, other cortical features clearly differed following these
developmental histories. (1) Neurons at virtually all recording sites in normal
hand maps responded to light mechanical stimulation, whereas, following injury,
neurons at about 8% of the recording sites responded only to high-intensity
stimuli. (2) Somatotopic organization differed in terms of the presence or
absence of the representation of skin autonomously innervated by the median
nerve, the number and continuity of representations of hairy skin, and the
spatial interfacing of representations. (3) Finally, there were differences in
the areas and widths of representations of parts of the hand. The overall
impression is that there is a correspondence between the cortical features that
changed most after injury, and the features that varied most in individual normal
monkeys: in both circumstances the most variable features involved properties of 
spatial patterning across large aggregates of neurons as reflected by the size,
shape, continuity, and interfacing of representations. A hypothesis is proposed
that suggests that the cortical hand map normally consists of a number of
representations that are capable of developing and surviving somewhat
autonomously of each other. The features of spatial patterning in the mosaiclike 
map of these representations are influenced by postnatal availability of inputs
from intact hand nerves.


PMCID: PMC6575718
PMID: 1527589  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

