

4189. J Neurosci. 1992 Sep;12(9):3445-55.

Changes in the cortical map of the hand following postnatal median nerve injury
in monkeys: modification of somatotopic aggregates.

Wall JT(1), Huerta MF, Kaas JH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, Medical College of Ohio, Toledo 43699.

Median nerves to the hands of 8-15-d-old marmoset monkeys were transected and
precluded from regeneration by ligation. Following periods of 0.4-1.5 years,
features of organization in the cortical area 3b hand map were assessed
neurophysiologically, and compared to features in normally reared monkeys.
Cortical features in monkeys with both histories were similar in certain
respects. (1) Receptive field organization was similar in terms of tactile
thresholds and receptive field size, continuity, and glabrous-hairy specificity. 
(2) Somatotopic organization was similar in terms of the continuity of the
glabrous representation, and progressions of receptive field shifts across some
parts of the hand map. (3) Finally, the overall size of the hand map did not
change. In contrast, other cortical features clearly differed following these
developmental histories. (1) Neurons at virtually all recording sites in normal
hand maps responded to light mechanical stimulation, whereas, following injury,
neurons at about 8% of the recording sites responded only to high-intensity
stimuli. (2) Somatotopic organization differed in terms of the presence or
absence of the representation of skin autonomously innervated by the median
nerve, the number and continuity of representations of hairy skin, and the
spatial interfacing of representations. (3) Finally, there were differences in
the areas and widths of representations of parts of the hand. The overall
impression is that there is a correspondence between the cortical features that
changed most after injury, and the features that varied most in individual normal
monkeys: in both circumstances the most variable features involved properties of 
spatial patterning across large aggregates of neurons as reflected by the size,
shape, continuity, and interfacing of representations. A hypothesis is proposed
that suggests that the cortical hand map normally consists of a number of
representations that are capable of developing and surviving somewhat
autonomously of each other. The features of spatial patterning in the mosaiclike 
map of these representations are influenced by postnatal availability of inputs
from intact hand nerves.


PMCID: PMC6575718
PMID: 1527589  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4190. Cardiovasc Res. 1992 Sep;26(9):871-7.

Dietary fat modulation of left ventricular ejection fraction in the marmoset due 
to enhanced filling.

McLennan PL(1), Barnden LR, Bridle TM, Abeywardena MY, Charnock JS.

Author information: 
(1)CSIRO Division of Human Nutrition, Glenthorne Laboratory, O'Halloran Hill,
Australia.

OBJECTIVE: The aim was to investigate the influence of long term dietary fish oil
consumption on cardiac function in a non-human primate, to elucidate further the 
basis of the apparently reduced cardiovascular disease mortality associated with 
its consumption in man.
METHODS: Adult male marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) were fed diets
supplemented with polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA) of marine (tuna fish oil) or
plant (sunflower seed oil) origin, saturated animal fat (sheep perirenal fat), or
a low fat reference diet for 24 months. Cardiac function was assessed using
radionuclide angiography under pentobarbitone anaesthesia with a counts based
adaptation for ventricular volume estimations. Measures were made at rest and
during infusion of adrenaline.
RESULTS: The mean left ventricular ejection fraction was greater in the tuna fish
oil group [55.0(SEM 1.1)% n = 7] and the sunflower seed oil group [58.1(2.4)% n =
8] than in the reference group [48.5(1.4)% n = 9] and the sheep fat group
[47.6(1.8)% n = 8]. This was associated with a more than 25% greater end
diastolic volume and 40-70% increases in stroke volume in tuna fish or sunflower 
seed oil fed animals. There was no evidence of cardiac hypertrophy. In contrast, 
adrenaline increased stroke volume and ejection fraction by increasing emptying, 
thus reducing residual end systolic. Tuna fish oil fed animals had a low resting 
heart rate. When this was raised to comparable levels by adrenaline, lower
pressure-rate indices and greater cardiac minute work suggested higher myocardial
energy efficiency in PUFA fed animals compared with the reference and sheep fat
groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Dietary fish oil and sunflower seed oil increased the left
ventricular ejection fraction in the marmoset monkey by enhancing ventricular
filling, thus providing an energy sparing promotion of diastolic relaxation.

DOI: 10.1093/cvr/26.9.871 
PMID: 1451164  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

