

4196. Am J Phys Anthropol. 1992 Aug;88(4):525-62.

Evolution of feeding niches in New World monkeys.

Rosenberger AL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Zoological Research, Smithsonian Institution, Washington, DC
20008.

The adaptive radiation of modern New World monkeys unfolded as the major lineages
diversified within different dietary-adaptive zones predicated upon a
fundamentally frugivorous habit. The broad outlines of this pattern can be seen
in the fossil record, beginning in the early Miocene. Cebids are obligate
frugivorous predators. The smallest forms (Cebuella, Callithrix) are specialized 
exudativores, and the largest (cebines) are seasonally flexible omnivores,
feeding particularly on insects (Saimiri) or "hard" foods, such as pith and palm 
nuts (Cebus), when resources are scarce. The smaller-bodied atelids (Callicebus, 
Aotus) may use insects or leaves opportunistically, but pitheciins (saki-uakaris)
specialize on seeds as their major protein source. The larger atelines (Alouatta,
Brachyteles) depend on leaves or on ripe fruit (Ateles). Locomotion, body size,
and dietary adaptations are linked: claws and small body size opened the
canopy-subcanopy niche to callitrichines; climbing and hanging, the fine-branch
setting to the atelines; large size and strength, semiprehensile tails, and
grasping thumbs, the extractive insectivory of Cebus; deliberate quadrupedalism, 
the energy-saving transport of folivorous Alouatta. Body size increases and
decreases occurred often and in parallel within guilds and lineages. Conventional
dietary categories, particularly frugivory, are inadequate for organizing the
behavioral and anatomical evidence pertinent to evolutionary adaptation. Related 
models of morphological evolution based on feeding frequencies tend to obfuscate 
the selective importance of "critical functions," responses to the
biomechanically challenging components of diet that may be determined by a
numerically small, or seasonal, dietary fraction. For fossils, body size is an
unreliable indicator of diet in the absence of detailed morphological
information. More attention needs to be given to developing techniques for
identifying and quantifying mechanically significant aspects of dental form, the 
physical properties of primate foods, their mode of access, and the cycles of
availability and nutritional value.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.1330880408 
PMID: 1503123  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4197. Am J Phys Anthropol. 1992 Aug;88(4):469-82.

Vertical clinging, small body size, and the evolution of feeding adaptations in
the Callitrichinae.

Garber PA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anthropology, University of Illinois, Urbana 61801.

Primates of the subfamily Callitrichinae (Callimico, Callithrix, Leontopithecus, 
and Saguinus) are small-bodied New World monkeys (105-700 g) possessing clawlike 
nails on all manual and pedal digits excluding the hallux. Specialized nails in
these genera serve a critical function in feeding by enabling tamarins and
marmosets to cling to trunks and other large vertical supports while exploiting
food resources. Within the subfamily, there is evidence of at least four distinct
large-branch feeding patterns. These include (1) seasonal exudate feeding and
occasional trunk foraging (many Saguinus spp.); (2) exploitation of bark surface 
insects and the use of trunks as a platform to locate terrestrial prey (Saguinus 
fuscicollis, S. nigricollis, and Callimico); (3) manipulative foraging and bark
stripping to locate concealed insects and small vertebrates (Leontopithecus); and
(4) tree gouging and year-round exudate feeding (many Callithrix). Large-branch
feeding and the use of vertical clinging postures appear to be a primary
adaptation among virtually all callitrichines, distinguishing them ecologically
from other platyrrhine taxa. Given the anatomy and behavior of extant
callitrichines, Saguinus appears to be the most ecologically generalized member
of this subfamily, and species of this genus may provide useful models for
reconstructing the feeding and foraging adaptations of early callitrichines.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.1330880404 
PMID: 1503119  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

