

4199. J Med Primatol. 1992 Aug;21(6):285-98.

Developmental biology of the common marmoset: proposal for a "postnatal staging".

Missler M(1), Wolff JR, Rothe H, Heger W, Merker HJ, Treiber A, Scheid R, Crook
GA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, University of Göttingen, FRG.

The published knowledge on neurobiological, psychological, and ethological
aspects of development in Callithrix jacchus is still limited. We have collected 
published and unpublished data from several Callithrix colonies and pooled
information on criteria for developmental progress and maturation using a
questionnaire sent to numerous experts in the field. The data suggest that
developmental stages can be defined not only for the embryonic and fetal but also
for the postnatal period. Based on multifactorial definitions, using criteria
selected from maturational changes in the motor and visual systems and behavioral
features, we propose to subdivide postnatal development of the common marmoset
into seven periods ("stages").


PMID: 1297850  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4200. Gene. 1992 Jul 15;116(2):231-43.

Gibbon and marmoset c-myc nucleotide sequences.

Eladari ME(1), Mohammad-Ali K, Argaut C, Galibert F.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire de Recombinaisons Génétiques-UPR 41 CNRS, Centre Hayem, Hôpital
Saint-Louis, Paris, France.

The nucleotide sequences of the gibbon and marmoset myc loci have been determined
by the dideoxy ribomethod. The number of mutations which occurred during
evolution and the branches affected were deduced according to the principle of
maximum parsimony, from a comparison with known mammal sequences. As previously
observed for the human and chimpanzee myc genes, an Alu repeat belonging to
subclass III was observed in the second intron of the gibbon myc gene. In
contrast, no such element was found in the marmoset gene. Alignment of the Myc
amino acid (aa) sequences provided clues for detecting which aa or which protein 
regions have been more heavily mutated. Conversely, some regions remained free of
mutations and remained unchanged from mouse to human, most probably in connection
with some important embedded property(ies). An intriguing feature of the human
Myc protein is duplication of 50 aa out of 439. Strikingly, most of these aa
remain unchanged in mouse, rat, cat, marmoset, gibbon, chimpanzee and human.

DOI: 10.1016/0378-1119(92)90520-y 
PMID: 1634119  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

