

4214. J Comp Neurol. 1992 Jun 22;320(4):457-67.

The selective innervation by serotoninergic axons of calbindin-containing
interneurons in the neocortex and hippocampus of the marmoset.

Hornung JP(1), Celio MR.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Anatomy, Faculty of Medicine, University of Lausanne,
Switzerland.

The serotoninergic input to the mammalian cerebral cortex originates in the
median and the dorsal raphe nuclei. Median raphe neurons have been previously
shown to give rise to beaded varicose axons which form dense pericellular arrays 
(baskets) surrounding the soma and the proximal dendrites of certain cortical
neurons. In the present study, we have searched for specific markers
characterizing the neurons of the marmoset neocortex and hippocampus surrounded
by these thick varicose serotonin-containing fibers. The non-pyramidal nature of 
these neurons, suggested by their dendritic arborization, was correlated, in
immunocytochemical experiments with double-labelling to demonstrate their
surrounding serotonin-containing basket and their content of glutamic acid
decarboxylase (GAD) or of the calcium-binding protein calbindin. Another
calcium-binding protein common in numerous non-pyramidal cortical neurons,
parvalbumin, was never found in neurons surrounded by serotonin-containing
baskets. This organization was found in all areas of the neocortex and of the
hippocampus where serotonin-containing baskets were present. One of the
serotoninergic cortical inputs which originates from the brainstem tegmentum,
traditionally described as "diffuse," proves to be highly selective in that a
subset of its axons terminates preferentially on a subpopulation of inhibitory
interneurons of the cerebral cortex. It may be emphasized that this subset of
cortical interneurons has now been shown to be characterized not only by its
axonal and dendritic arborization and its neurotransmitter, but also by a
specific type of input which can modulate cortical function in a unique manner.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.903200404 
PMID: 1629398  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4215. J Biol Chem. 1992 Jun 15;267(17):11705-8.

Squalestatin 1, a potent inhibitor of squalene synthase, which lowers serum
cholesterol in vivo.

Baxter A(1), Fitzgerald BJ, Hutson JL, McCarthy AD, Motteram JM, Ross BC, Sapra
M, Snowden MA, Watson NS, Williams RJ, et al.

Author information: 
(1)Glaxo Group Research Ltd., Greenford, Middlesex, United Kingdom.

Squalestatin 1 is a member of a novel family of fermentation products isolated
from a previously unknown Phoma species (Coelomycetes). Squalestatin 1 is a
potent, selective inhibitor of squalene synthase, a key enzyme in cholesterol
biosynthesis; in vitro, 50% inhibition of enzyme activity is observed at a
concentration of 12 +/- 5 nM (range of 4-22 nM). Squalestatin 1 inhibits
cholesterol biosynthesis from [14C]acetate by isolated rat hepatocytes (50%
inhibition at 39 nM) and by rat liver in vivo. In marmosets, a species with a
lipoprotein profile similar to that of man, squalestatin 1 lowers serum
cholesterol by up to 75%. This compound will allow further investigation of the
control of the sterol biosynthesis pathway and could also lead to the development
of new therapies for elevated serum cholesterol.


PMID: 1601846  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

