

4215. J Biol Chem. 1992 Jun 15;267(17):11705-8.

Squalestatin 1, a potent inhibitor of squalene synthase, which lowers serum
cholesterol in vivo.

Baxter A(1), Fitzgerald BJ, Hutson JL, McCarthy AD, Motteram JM, Ross BC, Sapra
M, Snowden MA, Watson NS, Williams RJ, et al.

Author information: 
(1)Glaxo Group Research Ltd., Greenford, Middlesex, United Kingdom.

Squalestatin 1 is a member of a novel family of fermentation products isolated
from a previously unknown Phoma species (Coelomycetes). Squalestatin 1 is a
potent, selective inhibitor of squalene synthase, a key enzyme in cholesterol
biosynthesis; in vitro, 50% inhibition of enzyme activity is observed at a
concentration of 12 +/- 5 nM (range of 4-22 nM). Squalestatin 1 inhibits
cholesterol biosynthesis from [14C]acetate by isolated rat hepatocytes (50%
inhibition at 39 nM) and by rat liver in vivo. In marmosets, a species with a
lipoprotein profile similar to that of man, squalestatin 1 lowers serum
cholesterol by up to 75%. This compound will allow further investigation of the
control of the sterol biosynthesis pathway and could also lead to the development
of new therapies for elevated serum cholesterol.


PMID: 1601846  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4216. Neuroscience. 1992 Jun;48(4):779-92.

Restoration of learning ability in fornix-transected monkeys after fetal basal
forebrain but not fetal hippocampal tissue transplantation.

Ridley RM(1), Gribble S, Clark B, Baker HF, Fine A.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Psychiatry, Clinical Research Centre, Harrow, U.K.

Monkeys with bilateral transection of the fornix were severely but selectively
impaired on learning and retention of visuospatial conditional discriminations,
visual conditional discriminations and non-conditional spatial-response tasks.
Bilateral transplantation of cholinergic-rich fetal basal forebrain tissue into
the hippocampus abolished significant learning impairments on all those tasks
impaired by fornix lesions when tested three to nine months after transplantation
whereas bilateral transplants of non-cholinergic fetal hippocampal tissue into
hippocampus showed no such beneficial effect. Acetylcholinesterase staining was
severely depleted throughout the dentate gyrus and hippocampus in
fornix-transected monkeys compared with animals with control corpus callosum
ablations. Staining was largely restored to normal in the host hippocampus and
dentate gyrus in monkeys with cholinergic transplants, whereas
acetylcholinesterase staining was abnormal in those with non-cholinergic grafts. 
These experiments suggest that where a "higher order" cognitive function, in this
case the acquisition of specific types of information into long-term memory, is
disturbed by a neuropharmacologically simple lesion, cognitive function can be
restored by transplantation of neurons containing appropriate neurotransmitters.

DOI: 10.1016/0306-4522(92)90266-5 
PMID: 1630624  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

