

4216. Neuroscience. 1992 Jun;48(4):779-92.

Restoration of learning ability in fornix-transected monkeys after fetal basal
forebrain but not fetal hippocampal tissue transplantation.

Ridley RM(1), Gribble S, Clark B, Baker HF, Fine A.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Psychiatry, Clinical Research Centre, Harrow, U.K.

Monkeys with bilateral transection of the fornix were severely but selectively
impaired on learning and retention of visuospatial conditional discriminations,
visual conditional discriminations and non-conditional spatial-response tasks.
Bilateral transplantation of cholinergic-rich fetal basal forebrain tissue into
the hippocampus abolished significant learning impairments on all those tasks
impaired by fornix lesions when tested three to nine months after transplantation
whereas bilateral transplants of non-cholinergic fetal hippocampal tissue into
hippocampus showed no such beneficial effect. Acetylcholinesterase staining was
severely depleted throughout the dentate gyrus and hippocampus in
fornix-transected monkeys compared with animals with control corpus callosum
ablations. Staining was largely restored to normal in the host hippocampus and
dentate gyrus in monkeys with cholinergic transplants, whereas
acetylcholinesterase staining was abnormal in those with non-cholinergic grafts. 
These experiments suggest that where a "higher order" cognitive function, in this
case the acquisition of specific types of information into long-term memory, is
disturbed by a neuropharmacologically simple lesion, cognitive function can be
restored by transplantation of neurons containing appropriate neurotransmitters.

DOI: 10.1016/0306-4522(92)90266-5 
PMID: 1630624  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4217. Am Heart J. 1992 Jun;123(6):1555-61.

Dietary lipid modulation of ventricular fibrillation threshold in the marmoset
monkey.

McLennan PL(1), Bridle TM, Abeywardena MY, Charnock JS.

Author information: 
(1)Cardiac Research Unit, C.S.I.R.O. Division of Human Nutrition, O'Halloran
Hill, Australia.

Programmed electrical stimulation was used to examine the ability of long-term
dietary lipid modulation to influence myocardial vulnerability to the induction
of ventricular fibrillation in adult marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus).
Marmosets fed diets supplemented (to a total of 28.5% of the energy as fat) with 
polyunsaturated fatty acid (PUFA)-rich tuna fish oil or sunflower seed oil had
significantly elevated mean ventricular fibrillation threshold compared with
those fed a saturated animal fat supplemented diet or a reference diet not
supplemented with fat (11.2% of the energy as fat). Fibrillation threshold was
reduced during acute myocardial ischemia induced by coronary artery occlusion but
still remained higher in the PUFA-fed animals than either the control or the
ischemic threshold in reference or saturated fat supplemented animals. Dietary
tuna fish oil was associated with a low incidence of sustained fibrillation
episodes and no fatalities. These results indicate that myocardial substrate
vulnerability to arrhythmic stimuli is increased during ischemia in a nonhuman
primate model but dietary PUFA can reduce vulnerability under both normal and
ischemic conditions. Reduced dietary fat intake alone was without effect.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-8703(92)90809-a 
PMID: 1595535  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

