

4220. Biochem Pharmacol. 1992 May 28;43(10):2129-34.

Identification of the proximate peroxisome proliferator(s) derived from di
(2-ethylhexyl) adipate and species differences in response.

Cornu MC(1), Lhuguenot JC, Brady AM, Moore R, Elcombe CR.

Author information: 
(1)Département de Biochimie et Toxicologie Alimentaires, ENS.BANA, Campus
Universitaire, Dijon, France.

Identification of the proximate peroxisome proliferator(s) derived from di
(2-ethylhexyl) adipate (DEHA) has been achieved using primary hepatocyte cultures
derived from different species and cyanide-insensitive fatty acyl CoA oxidase
(PCO) as a marker enzyme for peroxisome proliferation. In rat and mouse
hepatocytes, the parent compound (DEHA) had no effect on peroxisomal
beta-oxidation, but primary metabolites of DEHA, mono (2-ethylhexyl) adipate
(MEHA) and 2-ethylhexanol (EH), were approximately equipotent in PCO induction
(5-fold at 0.5 mM final concentration). The secondary metabolite of DEHA,
2-ethylhexanoic acid (EHA), was in both species the most potent peroxisome
proliferator (25- and 9-fold induction in mice and rats, respectively, at 1 mM
final concentration). At 2 mM final concentration a tertiary metabolite of DEHA, 
2-ethyl-5-hydroxyhexan-1-oic acid, was less effective in mouse and rat
hepatocytes at inducing PCO (15- and 5-fold, respectively).
2-Ethyl-5-oxohexan-1-oic acid and 2-ethylhexan-1,6-dioic acid had little effect
(2-3-fold in both rat and mouse hepatocytes). Thus, EHA was identified as the
proximate peroxisome proliferator of DEHA and mouse hepatocytes were
approximately twice as sensitive as rat hepatocytes to peroxisome proliferation
due to MEHA, EH and EHA. We investigated further species differences in response 
to peroxisome proliferators by using guinea pig and marmoset primary hepatocyte
culture. None of the chemicals studied stimulated peroxisomal beta-oxidation in
these species up to a final concentration of 2 mM. Higher concentrations lead to 
cytotoxicity. This lack of sensitivity of guinea pig and marmoset hepatocytes is 
in agreement with previous studies with di (2-ethylhexyl) phthalate metabolites, 
suggesting the absence of a threat of hepatocarcinogenic damage to these species 
and confirming that primary hepatocytes cultures are useful models for
investigating the phenomenon of peroxisome proliferation.

DOI: 10.1016/0006-2952(92)90171-e 
PMID: 1599500  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4221. Cell Tissue Res. 1992 May;268(2):369-76.

Intercellular communication between cultured granulosa cells of the marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus).

Rune GM(1), Pretzer D, Beuthe W, Merker HJ.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Anatomie, Berlin, Federal Republic of Germany.

The influence of follicle-stimulating hormone, forskolin, insulin-like growth
factor type I, epidermal growth factor, and 12-tetradecanoyl-phorbol-13-acetate
on marmoset granulosa cell communication via gap junctions was investigated by
morphological means and microinjection of carboxyfluorescein. Gap junctions
between neighbouring granulosa cells were present in all groups. The number, but 
not length, of gap junctions between marmoset granulosa cells increased when the 
cells had been treated with follicle-stimulating hormone, insulin-like growth
factor type I, and follicle-stimulating hormone plus insulin-like growth factor
type I. No effect on gap junctions was seen, after exposure of the cells to the
other three substances. Carboxyfluorescein and counting of the surrounding
labelled cells showed that supplementation with follicle-stimulating hormone,
forskolin, insulin-like growth factor type I and epidermal growth factor from the
beginning of cultivation led to an increase in stained cells after 48 h. When
treatment was started in 48 h cultures the substances reached their maximal
activity within 30 min (forskolin and epidermal growth factor) or 3 h
(follicle-stimulating hormone and insulin-like growth factor type I). Spreading
of the fluorescent dye was inhibited when the medium was supplemented with
12-tetradecanoyl-phorbol-13-acetate. This effect was maximal after 30 min.
Additive effects regarding the coupling of the cells were seen by combining of
epidermal growth factor with follicle-stimulating hormone, but not with
insulin-like growth factor type I or forskolin plus follicle-stimulating hormone.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00318805 
PMID: 1617703  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

