

4231. Mech Ageing Dev. 1992 Apr;63(2):183-92.

Histochemical characterization of the aging microvasculature in the human and
other mammalian and non-mammalian vertebrates by the periodic acid-Schiff
reaction.

Sobin SS(1), Bernick S, Ballard KW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Biophysics, University of Southern California
Cardiovascular Research Laboratory, American Heart Association Greater Los
Angeles Affiliate.

Prior histochemical studies with the periodic acid-Schiff (PAS) reaction have
shown altered biochemical composition in a limited part of the microvasculature
(MV) in aging in two species of laboratory animals. We therefore studied, with
the PAS reaction, all the components of the MV in multiple tissues from various
immature, adult and aged mammals, including human, and immature and aged
nonmammalian vertebrates. We now demonstrate that there is an altered biochemical
composition of capillaries, arterioles and venules in various tissues with aging.
These are first detectable somewhat beyond half the life-span in man (greater
than 45 years), marmoset (5 years) and dog (8 years) and seen in old fish,
reptiles and birds. The capillary wall is increasingly PAS+; in arterioles there 
are focal PAS+ areas in the media which increase in size and number with age and 
become hyalinized masses. The non-muscular venules are increasingly PAS+
apparently due to a polysaccharide staining of connective tissue elements. These 
histochemical changes in the MV with aging are in the extracellular matrix and
appear to be a specific manifestation of aging in vertebrates. The consequences
of such changes in MV aging may be important physiologically.

DOI: 10.1016/0047-6374(92)90064-k 
PMID: 1602846  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4232. Biol Reprod. 1992 Apr;46(4):523-34.

Analysis of the contraceptive potential of antibodies against native and
deglycosylated porcine ZP3 in vivo and in vitro.

Paterson M(1), Koothan PT, Morris KD, O'Byrne KT, Braude P, Williams A, Aitken
RJ.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Reproductive Biology Unit, Edinburgh, United Kingdom.

We have undertaken a comparative analysis of the contraceptive activity of
antibodies directed against the porcine sperm receptor zona pellucida antigen
(ZP3) and its Mr = 32,000 polypeptide core (DGZP-32). The strategies employed for
this analysis included the induction of active immunity in a primate, the common 
marmoset, and an in vitro fertilization protocol involving the use of viable
human ova. In both experimental situations, antibodies against ZP3 were shown to 
exhibit contraceptive activity, leading respectively to the induction of
long-term infertility in the primate model and to the complete inhibition of
human fertilization in vitro. The in vivo studies also revealed that the
induction of high titer antibodies against ZP3 was inevitably associated with the
appearance of an ovarian pathology characterized by the progressive depletion of 
the primordial follicle pool within one to two years. This side effect could not 
be alleviated by the use of DGZP-32 as antigen since the induction of immunity
against this polypeptide was also associated with the eventual appearance of an
ovarian pathology identical to that observed with ZP3. Furthermore, the DGZP-32
peptide was less effective than ZP3 in inducing the formation of antibodies
capable of inhibiting the fertilization of human ova in vitro. We conclude that
significant problems remain with the use of deglycosylated zona peptides for the 
development of contraceptive vaccines and that their potential will not be
realized until the epitopes responsible for the induction of infertility and the 
primordial follicle depletion have been identified and segregated.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod46.4.523 
PMID: 1576251  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

