

4241. Eur J Pharmacol. 1992 Mar 3;212(2-3):247-52.

Terguride stimulates locomotor activity at 2 months but not 10 months after
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine treatment of common marmosets.

Lange KW(1), Löschmann PA, Wachtel H, Horowski R, Jähnig P, Jenner P, Marsden CD.

Author information: 
(1)Parkinson's Disease Society Experimental Research Laboratories, Biomedical
Sciences Division, King's College, London, U.K.

The mixed dopamine (DA) agonist/antagonist terguride acts as a DA antagonist on
normosensitive receptors but shows DA agonistic properties at supersensitive DA
receptors. Such a compound could offer an alternative to the treatment of
Parkinson's disease with indirect or direct DA agonists. The present study
compares the actions of terguride, 4-12 mg/kg i.p., in naive common marmosets
with its effects in animals rendered parkinsonian by administration of
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP), 2 months or 10 months
previously, in order to test its antiparkinsonian efficacy. Terguride reduced
locomotor activity in naive common marmosets, similar to its effects in rodents
and in line with the DA antagonistic activity of the compound. In marmosets
treated with MPTP 2 months previously and exhibiting pronounced behavioural motor
deficits, terguride stimulated locomotor activity, showing DA agonistic
properties under these conditions. In contrast, the locomotor activity of animals
that had recovered from MPTP treatment 10 months previously was not altered by
terguride. It is concluded that terguride has anti-akinetic efficacy in this
primate model of Parkinson's disease. In addition, terguride offers a unique
opportunity to differentiate, pharmacologically, the extent of dopaminergic
recovery from MPTP treatment in this primate species.

DOI: 10.1016/0014-2999(92)90337-4 
PMID: 1350996  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4242. Am J Phys Anthropol. 1992 Mar;87(3):349-57.

Corpus callosum in sexually dimorphic and nondimorphic primates.

Holloway RL(1), Heilbroner P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anthropology, Columbia University, New York, New York 10027.

The midsagittal area and other morphological measures were taken on the corpus
callosum of four different species of primate: Macaca mulatta, M. fascicularis,
Callithrix jacchus, and Saguinus oedipus. The first two species are strongly
dimorphic, whereas the New World forms show little dimorphism with regard to
overall body size, canines, and brain weight. Neither total corpus callosal area 
(TOTALCC), or other parts of the corpus callosum (CC) showed any significant
sexual dimorphism in any of the primate species sampled. Only in M. mulatta did a
sexual dimorphism appear to be significant. In males of this species, the
dorsoventral width of the splenium was larger than in females. In addition, the
anterior commissure (ANTCOMM) evinced no sexual dimorphism in the different
species. Brain weight was significantly dimorphic in only M. mulatta, and when
ratio data were used to correct for brain weight, no significant differences were
found in the corpus callosum. This is in contrast to Homo sapiens, where the
relative size of the CC has been reported to be larger in females, and
particularly so in the posterior, or splenial portion of the CC. Correlation
coefficients were calculated for the various variables within each species. In
general, most of the callosal measures are significantly inter-correlated,
although the exact pattern varies for each species. Thus, unlike Homo sapiens, or
pongids such as Gorilla and Pan, neither New nor Old World monkeys show any
striking evidence for sexual dimorphism in the corpus callosum.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.1330870309 
PMID: 1562061  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

