

4242. Am J Phys Anthropol. 1992 Mar;87(3):349-57.

Corpus callosum in sexually dimorphic and nondimorphic primates.

Holloway RL(1), Heilbroner P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anthropology, Columbia University, New York, New York 10027.

The midsagittal area and other morphological measures were taken on the corpus
callosum of four different species of primate: Macaca mulatta, M. fascicularis,
Callithrix jacchus, and Saguinus oedipus. The first two species are strongly
dimorphic, whereas the New World forms show little dimorphism with regard to
overall body size, canines, and brain weight. Neither total corpus callosal area 
(TOTALCC), or other parts of the corpus callosum (CC) showed any significant
sexual dimorphism in any of the primate species sampled. Only in M. mulatta did a
sexual dimorphism appear to be significant. In males of this species, the
dorsoventral width of the splenium was larger than in females. In addition, the
anterior commissure (ANTCOMM) evinced no sexual dimorphism in the different
species. Brain weight was significantly dimorphic in only M. mulatta, and when
ratio data were used to correct for brain weight, no significant differences were
found in the corpus callosum. This is in contrast to Homo sapiens, where the
relative size of the CC has been reported to be larger in females, and
particularly so in the posterior, or splenial portion of the CC. Correlation
coefficients were calculated for the various variables within each species. In
general, most of the callosal measures are significantly inter-correlated,
although the exact pattern varies for each species. Thus, unlike Homo sapiens, or
pongids such as Gorilla and Pan, neither New nor Old World monkeys show any
striking evidence for sexual dimorphism in the corpus callosum.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.1330870309 
PMID: 1562061  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4243. J Periodontal Res. 1992 Mar;27(2):101-10.

Immunohistochemical localization of collagenous components in healthy periodontal
tissues of the rat and marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). I. Distribution of collagen
types I and III.

Romanos GE(1), Schröter-Kermani C, Hinz N, Wachtel HC, Bernimoulin JP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Periodontology, Dental School North, Freie Universität Berlin,
FRG.

The distribution of collagen types I and III was demonstrated in healthy
periodontal tissues of the rat and marmoset using immunofluorescent localization 
after decalcification of the maxillae and mandiblae in 0.2 N HCl. An intense
fluorescence in the alveolar bone and cementum matrix, as well as in the soft
periodontal tissue, was demonstrated with anti-collagen type I antibodies. In the
gingival connective tissue and in the periodontal ligament thick fibers of
collagen type I could be observed. The fluorescent reaction in the rat
periodontal ligament was not strong in comparison to the marmoset periodontal
ligament. Sharpey's fibers, inserting into the cementum and alveolar bone, were
also stained. On the other hand, collagen type III could not be demonstrated in
the hard periodontal tissues, but could be in the bone marrow stroma and the
incremental lines as well as around the Sharpey's fibers of the cementum, in
accordance to previous studies. In the gingival connective tissue a strong
staining was evident, especially near the basement membrane. The periodontal
ligament showed an intense fluorescence that was, in some areas, continuous with 
Sharpey's fibers inserting into the cementum. The distribution of collagen types 
I and III was demonstrated with immunohistochemical techniques in the rat and
marmoset periodontium. These results provide necessary information on healthy
tissues that will be required for future studies on the effects of pathological, 
reparative and regenerative processes.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0765.1992.tb01811.x 
PMID: 1532200  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

