

4246. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 1992 Feb 15;89(4):1296-300.

Viral small nuclear ribonucleoproteins bind a protein implicated in messenger RNA
destabilization.

Myer VE(1), Lee SI, Steitz JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biophysics and Biochemistry, Howard Hughes Medical
Institute, Yale University, Congress Avenue, New Haven, CT 06536-0182.

Herpesvirus saimiri (HVS) is one of several primate viruses that carry genes for 
small RNAs. The five H. saimiri-encoded U RNAs (HSURs) are the most abundant
viral transcripts expressed in transformed marmoset T lymphocytes. They assemble 
with host proteins common to spliceosomal small nuclear ribonucleoproteins
(snRNPs). HSURs 1, 2, and 5 exhibit sequences at their 5' ends identical to the
AUUUA motif, which targets a number of protooncogene, cytokine, and lymphokine
mRNAs for rapid degradation. We show that a 32-kDa protein previously
demonstrated to bind to the 3' untranslated region of several unstable messages
can be UV crosslinked specifically to HSUR 1, 2, and 5 transcripts in vitro, as
well as to endogenous HSUR snRNPs. Our results suggest an unusual role for these 
viral snRNPs: HSURs may function to attenuate the rapid degradation of certain
cellular mRNAs, thereby facilitating viral transformation of host T lymphocytes.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.89.4.1296 
PMCID: PMC48436
PMID: 1311093  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4247. J Endocrinol. 1992 Feb;132(2):217-24.

Influence of the gonad on the degree of suppression induced by an LHRH agonist
implant in the marmoset monkey.

Lunn SF(1), Cowen GM, Morris KD, Fraser HM.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Reproductive Biology Unit, Centre for Reproductive Biology, Edinburgh.

In a previous study pituitary-testicular function was shown to be maintained in a
New World primate after the administration of an LHRH agonist implant. In the
present study the mechanism of action of the same LHRH agonist (buserelin) on
pituitary-gonadal function in the marmoset was investigated and a comparison made
between the effects of treatment in three intact males, six adult cyclic females 
with regular ovulatory cycles, and six long-term ovariectomized animals. These
were injected s.c. with an LHRH agonist implant (1.5 mg buserelin in a rod 0.5 cm
long). In both the males and intact females, basal plasma LH concentrations were 
maintained within the normal range throughout the expected duration of agonist
action (at least 3 months). Despite this, an absence of response to an LHRH
challenge indicated that pituitary desensitization had occurred. In the intact
females, ovulation was inhibited in five of six animals, plasma progesterone
concentrations initially being maintained but subsequently remaining suppressed
until 136 +/- 18 (S.E.M.) days after treatment. Responsiveness to administered
LHRH returned prior to onset of return to ovarian cycles. In contrast, in
ovariectomized marmosets, plasma LH was markedly suppressed to concentrations
which were at or below the limit of detection of the assay and were therefore
less than those observed in the buserelin-implanted intact animals. These results
show that apparently normal pituitary-gonadal function in this species disguises 
an underlying pituitary desensitization to LHRH. This allows continuation of
testosterone secretion in the male, but in the female ovulation is prevented,
presumably as a result of failure of the desensitized pituitary to produce an LH 
surge.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1677/joe.0.1320217 
PMID: 1541921  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

