

4247. J Endocrinol. 1992 Feb;132(2):217-24.

Influence of the gonad on the degree of suppression induced by an LHRH agonist
implant in the marmoset monkey.

Lunn SF(1), Cowen GM, Morris KD, Fraser HM.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Reproductive Biology Unit, Centre for Reproductive Biology, Edinburgh.

In a previous study pituitary-testicular function was shown to be maintained in a
New World primate after the administration of an LHRH agonist implant. In the
present study the mechanism of action of the same LHRH agonist (buserelin) on
pituitary-gonadal function in the marmoset was investigated and a comparison made
between the effects of treatment in three intact males, six adult cyclic females 
with regular ovulatory cycles, and six long-term ovariectomized animals. These
were injected s.c. with an LHRH agonist implant (1.5 mg buserelin in a rod 0.5 cm
long). In both the males and intact females, basal plasma LH concentrations were 
maintained within the normal range throughout the expected duration of agonist
action (at least 3 months). Despite this, an absence of response to an LHRH
challenge indicated that pituitary desensitization had occurred. In the intact
females, ovulation was inhibited in five of six animals, plasma progesterone
concentrations initially being maintained but subsequently remaining suppressed
until 136 +/- 18 (S.E.M.) days after treatment. Responsiveness to administered
LHRH returned prior to onset of return to ovarian cycles. In contrast, in
ovariectomized marmosets, plasma LH was markedly suppressed to concentrations
which were at or below the limit of detection of the assay and were therefore
less than those observed in the buserelin-implanted intact animals. These results
show that apparently normal pituitary-gonadal function in this species disguises 
an underlying pituitary desensitization to LHRH. This allows continuation of
testosterone secretion in the male, but in the female ovulation is prevented,
presumably as a result of failure of the desensitized pituitary to produce an LH 
surge.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1677/joe.0.1320217 
PMID: 1541921  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4248. Res Microbiol. 1992 Feb;143(2):151-9.

Bacteriocin-like activity of Bacteroides fragilis group isolated from marmosets.

Farias LM(1), Carvalho MA, Damasceno CA, Cisalpino EO, Vieira EC.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Microbiologia, Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, Belo
Horizonte, Brazil.

The ability of strains of the B. fragilis group, isolated from the oral cavity
and intestine of marmosets, to produce bacteriorin-like substances in solid
medium, in terms of auto-, iso- and heteroantagonism, was evaluated. Antagonistic
activity was exhibited by 52% of the intestinal strains, 3 of which showed
autoantagonistic activity. Three out of 9 oral strains isolated, tested against
themselves, showed simultaneous isoantagonism to 4 indicator strains; but not
autoantagonism. The same 9 oral strains, when tested against 16 reference
strains, revealed interspecific activity only against 2 Gram-positive
microorganisms. Higher activity, evaluated by the size of the inhibition halo,
was observed in BHI-S agar, and greatest inhibition was obtained after 72 h of
incubation.

DOI: 10.1016/0923-2508(92)90004-8 
PMID: 1410791  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

