

4250. Comp Biochem Physiol Comp Physiol. 1992 Feb;101(2):387-93.

Differences in fatty acid composition of various tissues of the marmoset monkey
(Callithrix jacchus) after different lipid supplemented diets.

Charnock JS(1), Abeywardena MY, Poletti VM, McLennan PL.

Author information: 
(1)CSIRO, Division of Human Nutrition, Glenthorne Laboratory, O'Halloran Hill,
South Australia.

1. The fatty acid composition of different muscles, organs and blood components
of the marmoset monkey were examined after long-term feeding of several well
defined lipid supplemented diets. 2. Similarities between the fatty acid
composition of cardiac and skeletal muscles which persisted after all diets
suggest that biopsy of skeletal muscle may have an important diagnostic value in 
this and other primate species. 3. The relationship between the dietary intake of
individual fatty acids and their proportions in different tissues is both complex
and variable. 4. However, the lipid metabolism of Callithrix jacchus recommends
this small non-human primate as a most suitable species for the study of lipid
nutrition.

DOI: 10.1016/0300-9629(92)90551-z 
PMID: 1348468  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4251. J Comp Neurol. 1992 Jan 15;315(3):303-12.

Dendritic sampling across processing streams in monkey striate cortex.

Malach R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot, Israel.

Cytochrome oxidase (CO) dense blobs in primate striate cortex provide a striking 
example of parallel processing of visual information. The level of isolation of
the blobs from the surrounding interblob tissue was investigated in the present
study by combining CO staining with Golgi impregnation of dendritic arbors in the
same tissue sections. The data are based on material from two marmoset and three 
squirrel monkeys. The analysis was conducted on two types of Golgi preparations. 
In the first preparation, dense networks of overlapping dendrites were
impregnated over blob margins. The results of analyzing these networks with
transmission and confocal microscopy revealed that dendritic arbors penetrate
freely through blob margins. Statistical analysis revealed that the density of
dendritic crossings at blob margins was similar to that found at blob and
interblob centers. In the second type of Golgi preparation, single, isolated
neurons were impregnated. Studies of such neurons revealed occasional examples of
dendritic arbors that appeared to reflect back from blob margins, but counter
examples were equally abundant. Bias index analysis indicated that dendritic
arbors were generally unaffected by the presence of a nearby blob margin.
Scanning a large number of impregnated arbors indicated that at least half of the
population of blob-related neurons had dendrites in both blob and interblob
territory. Under the conditions of free dendritic penetration of blob margins,
the sole factor that determines the level of blob/interblob mixing appears to be 
the relationship between blob size and the dendritic spread of blob neurons.
Interestingly, in both the marmoset and squirrel monkeys this size ratio is
similar despite a large difference in their cortical surface area. Thus, it is
hypothesized that blob size is optimally matched to the dendritic span so as to
create a smooth transition of dendritic sampling from blob to interblob-related
processing streams.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.903150306 
PMID: 1311004  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

