

4251. J Comp Neurol. 1992 Jan 15;315(3):303-12.

Dendritic sampling across processing streams in monkey striate cortex.

Malach R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot, Israel.

Cytochrome oxidase (CO) dense blobs in primate striate cortex provide a striking 
example of parallel processing of visual information. The level of isolation of
the blobs from the surrounding interblob tissue was investigated in the present
study by combining CO staining with Golgi impregnation of dendritic arbors in the
same tissue sections. The data are based on material from two marmoset and three 
squirrel monkeys. The analysis was conducted on two types of Golgi preparations. 
In the first preparation, dense networks of overlapping dendrites were
impregnated over blob margins. The results of analyzing these networks with
transmission and confocal microscopy revealed that dendritic arbors penetrate
freely through blob margins. Statistical analysis revealed that the density of
dendritic crossings at blob margins was similar to that found at blob and
interblob centers. In the second type of Golgi preparation, single, isolated
neurons were impregnated. Studies of such neurons revealed occasional examples of
dendritic arbors that appeared to reflect back from blob margins, but counter
examples were equally abundant. Bias index analysis indicated that dendritic
arbors were generally unaffected by the presence of a nearby blob margin.
Scanning a large number of impregnated arbors indicated that at least half of the
population of blob-related neurons had dendrites in both blob and interblob
territory. Under the conditions of free dendritic penetration of blob margins,
the sole factor that determines the level of blob/interblob mixing appears to be 
the relationship between blob size and the dendritic spread of blob neurons.
Interestingly, in both the marmoset and squirrel monkeys this size ratio is
similar despite a large difference in their cortical surface area. Thus, it is
hypothesized that blob size is optimally matched to the dendritic span so as to
create a smooth transition of dendritic sampling from blob to interblob-related
processing streams.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.903150306 
PMID: 1311004  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4252. Am J Primatol. 1992;26(2):109-118. doi: 10.1002/ajp.1350260205.

The care of infants in a wild marmoset (Callithrix flaviceps) group.

Ferrari SF(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anthropology, University College London, United Kingdom.
(2)Anthropologisches Institut der Universität Zürich-Irchel, Switzerland.

The behavior of a free-ranging group of buffy-headed marmosets (Callithrix
flaviceps) was observed in detail over a five-month period following the birth of
twins. Infant care, principally carrying and food sharing, were analyzed and the 
variation both between age-sex classes and through time investigated. Potentially
reproductive males exhibited a relatively high degree of interest in the infants 
during the first week following birth, but their provision of care was otherwise 
little different from that of other group members. The data are considered in
relation to the factors stimulating care-giving behavior and possible differences
between callitrichid genera are discussed.

Copyright © 1992 Wiley‐Liss, Inc., A Wiley Company.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.1350260205 
PMID: 31948164 

