

4256. Neuroscience. 1992;47(2):251-64.

A specific form of cognitive rigidity following excitotoxic lesions of the basal 
forebrain in marmosets.

Roberts AC(1), Robbins TW, Everitt BJ, Muir JL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, University of Cambridge, U.K.

The effects of N-methyl-D-aspartate-induced lesions of the basal forebrain were
studied on performance of a series of visual discrimination tests that examined a
range of cognitive functions in the marmoset. These included the ability to
attend to the various dimensional properties of stimuli and to use just one of
these properties in order to solve a discrimination (intra-dimensional shift); to
switch attention from one dimension to another (extra-dimensional shift); to
learn the reinforcement value of specific exemplars within a dimension (new
learning); and to relearn their reinforcement value following reversal of the
reward contingencies (serial reversals). Lesions of the basal forebrain did not
impair the ability either to attend selectively to the dimensional properties of 
the stimuli or to switch attention from one dimension to the other. However, the 
lesion did affect various aspects of associative learning including a transient
impairment of new learning and a marked disruption of serial reversal learning.
The reversal deficit could be characterised as a tendency to perseverate on the
previously correct stimulus and as a failure to to show the formation of a
reversal learning set. In addition, the lesion prevented disruption of
performance of a well-learned discrimination when novel exemplars from the
irrelevant dimension were introduced (probe test). It is suggested that the
functional effects of the basal forebrain lesion reflect impaired learning of
stimulus-reward associations and behavioural rigidity. The finding, however, that
there was no effect of the lesion on attentional set-shifting suggests that any
loss of inhibitory control was specific to the level of stimulus-response or
stimulus-reward associations, inhibitory control at the level of attentional
selection remaining intact. The similarity of the effects of damage to the basal 
forebrain to those seen following damage to the orbitofrontal cortex and the
amygdala are discussed in the context of the close anatomical and functional
relationships that exist among these three structures.

DOI: 10.1016/0306-4522(92)90241-s 
PMID: 1641123  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4257. J Neurol. 1992;239 Suppl 1:S2-8.

Parkinson's disease: pathological mechanisms and actions of piribedil.

Jenner P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Parkinson's Disease Society Experimental Research Laboratories, King's College
London, UK.

The cause of the degeneration of dopamine-containing cells in the zona compacta
of the substantia nigra in Parkinson's disease remains unknown. The ability of
the selective nigral toxin 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6 tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)
(via its metabolite MPP+) to destroy nigral dopamine cells selectively by
inhibiting complex I of the mitochondrial energy chain may provide a clue.
Indeed, recent studies of post-mortem brain tissue have suggested the presence of
an on-going toxic process in the substantia nigra in Parkinson's disease leading 
to excess lipid peroxidation. This appears also to involve a disruption of
mitochondrial function since mitochondrial superoxide dismutase activity is
increased and there is impairment of complex I. These changes may in turn relate 
to a selective increase in the total iron content of substantia nigra coupled to 
a generalised decrease in brain ferritin content. Piribedil is used in the
symptomatic treatment of Parkinson's disease and is particularly effective
against tremor. Piribedil (and its metabolites) acts as a dopamine D-2 receptor
agonist. However, in our studies in contrast to other dopamine agonists, in vivo 
piribedil interacts with dopamine receptors in the substantia nigra and nucleus
accumbens but not those in the striatum. In patients with Parkinson's disease the
beneficial effects of piribedil may be limited by nausea and drowsiness. Indeed, 
in MPTP-treated primates piribedil reverses motor deficits but marked
side-effects occur. However, pre-treatment with the peripheral dopamine receptor 
antagonist domperidone prevents the unwanted effects and piribedil produces a
profound and longer-lasting reversal of all components of the motor
syndrome.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1007/BF00819559 
PMID: 1634907  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

