

4257. J Neurol. 1992;239 Suppl 1:S2-8.

Parkinson's disease: pathological mechanisms and actions of piribedil.

Jenner P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Parkinson's Disease Society Experimental Research Laboratories, King's College
London, UK.

The cause of the degeneration of dopamine-containing cells in the zona compacta
of the substantia nigra in Parkinson's disease remains unknown. The ability of
the selective nigral toxin 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6 tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)
(via its metabolite MPP+) to destroy nigral dopamine cells selectively by
inhibiting complex I of the mitochondrial energy chain may provide a clue.
Indeed, recent studies of post-mortem brain tissue have suggested the presence of
an on-going toxic process in the substantia nigra in Parkinson's disease leading 
to excess lipid peroxidation. This appears also to involve a disruption of
mitochondrial function since mitochondrial superoxide dismutase activity is
increased and there is impairment of complex I. These changes may in turn relate 
to a selective increase in the total iron content of substantia nigra coupled to 
a generalised decrease in brain ferritin content. Piribedil is used in the
symptomatic treatment of Parkinson's disease and is particularly effective
against tremor. Piribedil (and its metabolites) acts as a dopamine D-2 receptor
agonist. However, in our studies in contrast to other dopamine agonists, in vivo 
piribedil interacts with dopamine receptors in the substantia nigra and nucleus
accumbens but not those in the striatum. In patients with Parkinson's disease the
beneficial effects of piribedil may be limited by nausea and drowsiness. Indeed, 
in MPTP-treated primates piribedil reverses motor deficits but marked
side-effects occur. However, pre-treatment with the peripheral dopamine receptor 
antagonist domperidone prevents the unwanted effects and piribedil produces a
profound and longer-lasting reversal of all components of the motor
syndrome.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1007/BF00819559 
PMID: 1634907  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4258. J Neural Transm Park Dis Dement Sect. 1992;4(3):181-90.

Localization of MPP+ binding sites in the brain of various mammalian species.

Del Zompo M(1), Piccardi MP, Ruiu S, Albanese A, Morelli M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosciences B. B. Brodie, University of Cagliari, Italy.

The distribution and density of 3H-MPP+ binding sites were studied by in vitro
quantitative autoradiography in the brain of the mouse, rat and monkey. The
highest levels of 3H-MPP+ specific binding were observed in rat brain. The
substantia nigra in rat and monkey, and the anterior caudate-putamen formation in
mouse and monkey showed the lowest density of autoradiographic grains. The
presence of a relatively high density of MPP+ sites in the hippocampus of all
species studied could be of interest to explain some effects of MPTP
administration on convulsions caused by chemoconvulsants. The finding of a 60-70%
reduction of 3H-MPP+ binding sites in the rat caudate-putamen, on the side of
quinolinic acid infusion and no changes after 6-hydroxydopamine lesion of
dopaminergic nigrostriatal neurons suggests the presence of these sites mainly on
striatal cells. The results suggest that the distribution of MPP+ binding sites
in brain would not seem to be related to MPTP toxicity.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02260902 
PMID: 1627253  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

