

4264. Arch Toxicol. 1992;66(4):250-9.

Polyhalogenated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans and the immune system. 4.
Effects of multiple-dose treatment with 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin
(TCDD) on peripheral lymphocyte subpopulations of a non-human primate (Callithrix
jacchus).

Neubert R(1), Golor G, Stahlmann R, Helge H, Neubert D.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Toxikologie und Embryopharmakologie, Freie Universität Berlin,
Federal Republic of Germany.

Non-human primates (Callithrix jacchus) were treated with
2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) over a period of 30 weeks, and
lymphocyte subpopulations of venous blood were monitored using monoclonal
antibodies and flow cytometry (FACScan). There was no clear-cut change in the
total lymphocyte population during this study. In the first part of the study the
new-world monkeys (marmosets) were treated for 24 weeks with a weekly dose of 0.3
ng TCDD/kg body wt. At the end of this treatment period a level corresponding to 
an actual cumulative dose of about 2.5-2.7 ng TCDD/kg body wt was expected. The
percentage and the absolute number of the CD4+CDw29+ cells ("helper inducer" or
"memory" cells) surmounted the physiologically occurring increase. Concomitantly 
the percentage of the CD4+CD45RA+ cells ("suppressor-inducer" or "naive" cells)
decreased. There was, at the same period, no change in the total T cell
population (CD2+ cells) or in the cells carrying the CD8 or the CD4 epitope. When
increasing the weekly dose to 1.5 ng TCDD/kg body wt, a transient increase in the
percentage and the absolute number of the CD8+CD56+ cell population ("cytotoxic T
cells") was observed 3 weeks after the increase in dosing. At this time the
expected decrease in the percentage or the absolute number of CD4+CDw29+ cells
was just detectable and this decline was at its maximum 6 weeks after switching
to the higher weekly doses. The reduction in the percentage and the absolute
number of CD4+CDw29+ cells persisted 5 weeks after discontinuation of the dosing,
but this cell population was again within normal limits 7 weeks later. Because
the two subpopulations are changed in opposite directions, the ratio
CD4+CDw29+/CD4+CD45RA+ is a very sensitive measure of the effect induced by TCDD.
There was a pronounced decrease in the percentage of the CD20+ cells (B1 cells), 
but their percentage and number rapidly normalized, in contrast to the CD4+CDw29+
cells, when the dosing was discontinued. At the end of the treatment period the
apparent body burden was calculated to correspond to an actual dose of about 9-10
ng TCDD/kg body wt. Such an actual dose level might be assumed to be reached
under steady-state conditions in chronic experiments with daily doses of about
135 pg TCDD/kg body wt (assuming a half-life for TCDD in the marmoset of 6-8
weeks). Extrapolations of the results obtained at higher doses to very low
exposures is not justified with respect to the effects induced by TCDD on the
immune system of marmosets. At lower doses the effect is clearly reversed.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02307170 
PMID: 1514923  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4265. Scand J Immunol Suppl. 1992;11:118-22.

Anti-sperm and anti-ovum vaccines: the selection of candidate antigens and the
outcome of preclinical studies.

Isahakia MA(1), Bambra CS.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Primate Research, National Museums of Kenya, Karen, Nairobi.

A clear conceptual basis for anti-sperm and other modes of immunological birth
control exists in spite of the limited basic research done on surface antigens of
sperm or egg. In the normal physiological condition, the immune system does not
respond to sperm, egg or fetus. Compared with anti-egg or anti-fetus
immunocontraception, an anti-sperm vaccine has two theoretical advantages. First 
it would work in both males and females; second, it would not raise problems of
autoimmunity in the female if a sperm-specific protein is used. However, for the 
development of such contraceptive vaccines the following scientific questions
need to be resolved: (1) what surface protein to use as an antigen; (2) what
adjuvant to use in humans for an anti-fertility vaccine; (3) how to maintain a
high titre; (4) how the contraceptive effect will be terminated; and (5) what are
the potential side-effects.

PIP: Certain sperm antigens are auto- or isoimmunogenic, and naturally occurring 
sperm antibodies have been implicated in 10-15% of unexplained human infertility.
Thus, efforts to develop an immunocontraceptive for human application have
targeted sperm antigens. The World Health Organization Task Force on
Contraceptive Vaccines designated the human sperm SP-10 as a primary vaccine
candidate. The presence of SP-10 mRNA was demonstrated in baboons and macaques,
and it is an ideal primate model for evaluating human efficacy. At a workshop on 
worldwide research on all monoclonal antibodies against sperm, HS-11 and HS-63
were selected for further evaluation because of their high specificity and
significant anti-fertility effects. Isoenzyme LDH-C4 is a primary sperm antigen: 
it provokes antibodies that are absolutely cell specific and do not cross-react
with somatic LDH isozymes. Immunization of both males and females with purified
LDH-C4 results in an immune response and antibodies suppress fertility in female 
mice, rabbits and baboons. The PH-20 protein from guinea pigs has a required
function in sperm-zona binding, and a 100% effective contraception is obtained
when either male or female guinea pigs are immunized with purified PH-20.
Regarding zona pellucida antigens (ZP), the porcine zona pellucida contains the
major glycoprotein families identified as ZP1, ZP2 and ZP3. In a human in vitro
fertilization system, only antibodies against ZP3 completely suppressed sperm-egg
interaction. Passive administration of anti-zona pellucida antibodies results in 
long-term reversible contraception. The development of antigens capable of
evoking an immune response, thereby preventing fertility without ovarian
histopathology, is under way. A zona pellucida contraceptive vaccine containing
8-cell, but not T-cell, zona pellucida epitopes may prevent ovarian pathology.
DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-3083.1992.tb01633.x 
PMID: 1514025  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

