

4268. C R Acad Sci III. 1992;315(4):151-7.

[Taste thresholds and above-threshold responses to fructose solution in relation 
to diet in Callitrichidae primates].

[Article in French]

Simmen B(1).

Author information: 
(1)U.P.R. n. 263 du C.N.R.S., Laboratoire d'Ecologie générale du Muséum, national
d'Histoire naturelle, Brunoy.

Taste thresholds and consumption responses to above-threshold concentrations of
fructose solutions were determined in eight callitrichid primate species using
the "two-bottle preference test". Although taste thresholds are relatively
similar across species, above-threshold responses may differ considerably between
marmosets and tamarins. As fructose concentration increases, the rate of
consumption increases less for most marmoset species (Cebuella and Callithrix
spp.) than for Goeldi's monkey (Callimico) and tamarins (Saguinus and
Leontopithecus spp.). It is proposed that distinct shapes of the curves
illustrating these responses characterize species in terms of global taste system
adaptations to different diets.


PMID: 1450982  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4269. Parasitol Res. 1992;78(6):509-12.

Studies on the developmental cycle of Trichospirura leptostoma (Nematoda:
Thelaziidae). Experimental infection of the intermediate hosts Blatella germanica
and Supella longipalpa and the definitive host Callithrix jacchus and development
in the intermediate hosts.

Illgen-Wilcke B(1), Beglinger R, Pfister R, Heider K.

Author information: 
(1)Research and Development Department, Pharmaceuticals Division, CIBA-GEIGY
Limited, Basel, Switzerland.

The cockroaches Blatella germanica and Supella longipalpa can act as intermediate
hosts of Trichospirura leptostoma as demonstrated by experimental infestation.
The parasite developed from the embryonated egg into the infective larval stage
(L3) in cockroaches within 5-6 weeks. After experimental infection of marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus), eggs were first found in faecal samples (prepatency) at 8-9
weeks post-infection. Patency lasts about 2 years. Despite the presence of living
adult worms in the marmosets' pancreas, no additional eggs were observed in their
faeces after the patent period.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00931572 
PMID: 1438137  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

