

4271. Brain Res Mol Brain Res. 1992 Jan;12(1-3):267-74.

Cellular localization of tyrosine hydroxylase mRNA and cholecystokinin
mRNA-containing cells in the ventral mesencephalon of the common marmoset:
effects of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine.

Sirinathsinghji DJ(1), Kupsch A, Mayer E, Zivin M, Pufal D, Oertel WH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Behavioural Physiology, AFRC Institute of Animal Physiology and 
Genetics Research, Babraham, Cambridge, U.K.

In situ hybridization histochemistry was used to localize tyrosine hydroxylase
(TH) mRNA and cholecystokinin (CCK) mRNA-expressing cells in the ventral
mesencephalon of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) and to examine the
effects of the dopaminergic (DA) neurotoxin,
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) on these two populations of
neurons in the pars compacta of the substantia nigra (SNc) and ventral tegmental 
area (VTA). X-ray film and liquid emulsion autoradiography of brain sections
hybridized with an 35S-labelled synthetic 45-mer antisense human TH
oligonucleotide probe showed strong hybridization signals and dense populations
of TH mRNA expressing cells in the SNc and VTA at all levels, in the control
marmoset brain. In the MPTP-treated brain, there was a substantial reduction of
TH mRNA in the ventral midbrain. The loss of TH mRNA-expressing cells amounted to
98% in the lateral SNc, 88% in the medial SNc and 33% in the VTA. In situ
hybridization of adjacent sections with an 35S-labelled synthetic 45-mer
antisense human CCK oligonucleotide probe showed a weak hybridization signal for 
CCK mRNA in the ventral midbrain of the control brain. Emulsion autoradiography
demonstrated CCK mRNA expressing cells in the SNc and VTA at all levels with the 
number of cells in the VTA similar to that for TH mRNA. However, the number of
cells in the SNc expressing CCK mRNA was a fraction (1/4) of that expressing TH
mRNA; moreover, the level of expression per cell was substantially less than that
for TH mRNA.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1016/0169-328x(92)90093-q 
PMID: 1347634  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4272. Reprod Fertil Dev. 1992;4(5):467-80.

Antibodies, implantation and embryo survival.

Heap RB(1), Taussig MJ, Wang MW, Whyte A.

Author information: 
(1)AFRC Institute of Animal Physiology and Genetics Research, Babraham,
Cambridge, UK.

The diverse strategies adopted among species for the maintenance of luteal
function converge to meet the indispensable requirement for this hormone
particularly at the time of onset of implantation. What has emerged from
immunization studies is the difference that exists between various species in the
effects of progesterone depletion. The findings affirm the uterus as a primary
site of progesterone action in the preimplantation period of gestation in the
mouse, whereas in the hamster the positive feedback by progesterone on pituitary 
luteotrophin secretion is important in maintaining luteal function and hormone
secretion at a level necessary for uterine preparation. The impact of
progesterone in the rat seems to be established within 48 h after fertilization, 
whereas in the ferret the hormone's action ensures a suitable uterine environment
in which the early embryo can flourish. Its effects in early pregnancy in the
marmoset are ambiguous from the present studies unless it emerges that target
organ responses are tuned to low concentrations of active steroid. However, the
discoveries in mice of a conserved family of immunoglobulin genes used
exclusively by immunogenic forms of progesterone conjugated to proteins to
stimulate antibody production, and of antibody binding to the uterine epithelium,
reveal systems potentially inimical for embryo survival. The endometrial
expression of the proto-oncogene erb-A at a time when the embryo has not yet
arrived in the uterus, and of antibody-binding to the uterine epithelium, are
early maternal responses whose significance require closer examination. The
present findings support the hypothesis that the primary site of action of
progesterone during the preimplantation period differs between species, and that 
it is not only the mother that recognizes, but the embryo that initiates early
changes before the onset of implantation 'in the bed of soil that nourishes it', 
a symbiosis that may yet prove to be a common feature of the adoption of
viviparity as a preferred mode of reproduction.

DOI: 10.1071/rd9920467 
PMID: 1338606  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

