

4275. Vaccine. 1992;10 Suppl 1:S36-9.

Molecular basis of virulence and growth of hepatitis A virus in cell culture.

Emerson SU(1), Huang YK, McRill C, Lewis M, Shapiro M, London WT, Purcell RH.

Author information: 
(1)Hepatitis Virus Section, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious
Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892.

The ability of engineering variants of hepatitis A virus (strain HM175) to
replicate in cell culture or to cause disease in marmosets was evaluated. Virus
variants were encoded by chimeric genomes constructed from infectious cDNA clones
of two viruses (wild type and cell-culture-adapted) which differed in their
ability to grow in vitro and to cause acute hepatitis in marmosets. Transfection 
and infectivity assays indicated that virus growth in vitro could be enhanced by 
subcloning the cell substrate prior to infection or by introducing multiple
combinations of two or more mutations into the wild type genome. Various chimeric
viruses induced liver enzyme elevations in marmosets, indicating that attenuation
of virulence also required multiple mutations.

DOI: 10.1016/0264-410x(92)90539-v 
PMID: 1335656  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4276. Int J Clin Lab Res. 1992;22(2):95-9.

Interleukin-4 stimulates immunoglobulin secretion by Epstein-Barr virus
(EBV)-activated tonsillar B cells, and by EBV-transformed lymphoblastoid B cell
lines without increasing cell division.

Shields JG(1), Kotowicz K, Callard RE.

Author information: 
(1)Cellular Immunology Unit, Institute of Child Health, London, UK.

Freshly prepared Epstein-Barr virus-transformed B lymphoblastoid cell lines
derived from five different donors were tested for their responses to recombinant
human interleukin-4 and to low molecular weight B cell growth factor. In the
absence of either cytokine, all five lines secreted immunoglobulin of more than
one isotype (IgM, IgG, and IgA, but not IgE). Stimulation with interleukin-4
resulted in a significant increase in immunoglobulin secretion, but did not
enhance cell division measured by tritiated-thymidine uptake or cell counts. In
contrast, low molecular weight B cell growth factor increased both immunoglobulin
secretion and cell division. The increase in immunoglobulin secretion stimulated 
by interleukin-4 occurred for each of the different isotypes (IgM, IgG and IgA)
produced by the unstimulated line. No IgE secretion was detected for any of the
five lines. It was also found that low (5 units/ml), but not high (100 units/ml),
concentrations of interleukin-4 increased IgM, IgG and IgA secretion by tonsillar
B cells polyclonally activated with Epstein-Barr virus. Again, no IgE was
detected at any time. These results suggest that interleukin-4 can function as a 
late-acting B cell differentiation factor as well as a growth factor for human B 
cells.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02591404 
PMID: 1324027  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

