

4276. Int J Clin Lab Res. 1992;22(2):95-9.

Interleukin-4 stimulates immunoglobulin secretion by Epstein-Barr virus
(EBV)-activated tonsillar B cells, and by EBV-transformed lymphoblastoid B cell
lines without increasing cell division.

Shields JG(1), Kotowicz K, Callard RE.

Author information: 
(1)Cellular Immunology Unit, Institute of Child Health, London, UK.

Freshly prepared Epstein-Barr virus-transformed B lymphoblastoid cell lines
derived from five different donors were tested for their responses to recombinant
human interleukin-4 and to low molecular weight B cell growth factor. In the
absence of either cytokine, all five lines secreted immunoglobulin of more than
one isotype (IgM, IgG, and IgA, but not IgE). Stimulation with interleukin-4
resulted in a significant increase in immunoglobulin secretion, but did not
enhance cell division measured by tritiated-thymidine uptake or cell counts. In
contrast, low molecular weight B cell growth factor increased both immunoglobulin
secretion and cell division. The increase in immunoglobulin secretion stimulated 
by interleukin-4 occurred for each of the different isotypes (IgM, IgG and IgA)
produced by the unstimulated line. No IgE secretion was detected for any of the
five lines. It was also found that low (5 units/ml), but not high (100 units/ml),
concentrations of interleukin-4 increased IgM, IgG and IgA secretion by tonsillar
B cells polyclonally activated with Epstein-Barr virus. Again, no IgE was
detected at any time. These results suggest that interleukin-4 can function as a 
late-acting B cell differentiation factor as well as a growth factor for human B 
cells.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02591404 
PMID: 1324027  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4277. J Endocrinol. 1992 Jan;132(1):123-31.

Effects of oestradiol-17 beta on FSH-stimulated steroidogenesis in cultured
marmoset granulosa cells.

Shaw HJ(1), Hodges JK.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Zoology, Zoological Society of London, Regent's Park.

A role for oestradiol in ovarian follicular development is well recognized.
However, a number of disparate effects have been reported for the action of
oestradiol in the primate ovary. To investigate this further, we have examined
the effects of oestradiol on the differentiation of granulosa cells isolated from
small (0.5-1 mm) antral follicles obtained from the ovaries of prepubertal
marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus). Granulosa cells were co-cultured with
oestradiol and human FSH (hFSH) for 48 h, or were pretreated with oestradiol for 
48 h before addition of gonadotrophin for a further 48 h. Oestradiol (0.01-100
nmol/l) had no effect on basal or hFSH-stimulated progesterone accumulation and
aromatase activity when the hormones were added concurrently. Furthermore,
oestradiol did not influence the ability of hFSH to induce LH/human chorionic
gonadotrophin (hCG) responsiveness in immature granulosa cells. The absence of
synergism between oestradiol and hFSH in the induction of marmoset granulosa cell
differentiation was independent of the presence of phenol red in culture medium. 
However, gonadotrophin-stimulated steroidogenesis was attenuated when cells were 
cultured in the presence of phenol red compared with in its absence; this effect 
was more pronounced for gonadotrophin-stimulated aromatase activity but was
evident for LH/hCG-stimulated progesterone accumulation at higher doses of hCG
(10 and 100 ng/ml). An effect of phenol red on basal steroidogenesis was less
obvious.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1677/joe.0.1320123 
PMID: 1310713  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

