

4277. J Endocrinol. 1992 Jan;132(1):123-31.

Effects of oestradiol-17 beta on FSH-stimulated steroidogenesis in cultured
marmoset granulosa cells.

Shaw HJ(1), Hodges JK.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Zoology, Zoological Society of London, Regent's Park.

A role for oestradiol in ovarian follicular development is well recognized.
However, a number of disparate effects have been reported for the action of
oestradiol in the primate ovary. To investigate this further, we have examined
the effects of oestradiol on the differentiation of granulosa cells isolated from
small (0.5-1 mm) antral follicles obtained from the ovaries of prepubertal
marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus). Granulosa cells were co-cultured with
oestradiol and human FSH (hFSH) for 48 h, or were pretreated with oestradiol for 
48 h before addition of gonadotrophin for a further 48 h. Oestradiol (0.01-100
nmol/l) had no effect on basal or hFSH-stimulated progesterone accumulation and
aromatase activity when the hormones were added concurrently. Furthermore,
oestradiol did not influence the ability of hFSH to induce LH/human chorionic
gonadotrophin (hCG) responsiveness in immature granulosa cells. The absence of
synergism between oestradiol and hFSH in the induction of marmoset granulosa cell
differentiation was independent of the presence of phenol red in culture medium. 
However, gonadotrophin-stimulated steroidogenesis was attenuated when cells were 
cultured in the presence of phenol red compared with in its absence; this effect 
was more pronounced for gonadotrophin-stimulated aromatase activity but was
evident for LH/hCG-stimulated progesterone accumulation at higher doses of hCG
(10 and 100 ng/ml). An effect of phenol red on basal steroidogenesis was less
obvious.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1677/joe.0.1320123 
PMID: 1310713  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4278. J Pharmacol Exp Ther. 1992 Jan;260(1):29-35.

The acute renal actions of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors in the
sodium-depleted conscious primate are mediated by inhibition of the
renin-angiotensin system.

Humke U(1), Levens N, Wood J, Hofbauer K.

Author information: 
(1)Cardiovascular Research Department, CIBA-GEIGY Ltd., Basel, Switzerland.

The purpose of this study was to determine if the changes in renal function
acutely produced by an inhibitor of angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) in the
sodium-depleted conscious marmoset can be explained primarily by blockade of the 
renin-angiotensin system. Intravenous injection of a dose of the ACEI,
enalaprilate (2 mg/kg), that produced a maximal lowering of blood pressure (BP), 
also decreased renal vascular resistance and increased renal blood flow.
Glomerular filtration rate was unchanged by enalaprilat, leading to a fall in the
filtration fraction. In comparison, a dose of the renin inhibitory monoclonal
antibody, R-3-36-16 (0.1 mg/kg), that also produced a maximal fall in BP,
produced similar changes in renal hemodynamics to those observed after
administration of the ACEI. Combined administration of 2 mg/kg enalaprilat and
0.1 mg/kg R-3-36-16 produced changes in BP and renal hemodynamics similar to
those produced by the same doses of either agent administered alone. Enalaprilat 
(2 mg/kg) significantly increased urine volume (UV) and urinary sodium excretion 
(UNaV). In contrast, these parameters were not significantly altered by 0.1 mg/kg
R-3-36-16. However, when given at a 10-fold higher dose, the monoclonal antibody 
produced an increase in UNaV and UV identical to that produced by the ACEI alone.
Enalaprilat did not increase UV and UNaV excretion to a greater extent than the
high dose of the renin inhibitory antibody. These results demonstrate that acute 
administration of an ACEI affects BP and renal function in the sodium-depleted
conscious primate primarily by inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system.


PMID: 1309874  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

