

4290. J Anat. 1991 Oct;178:45-63.

Distribution and fine structural analysis of undifferentiated cells in the
primate subependymal layer.

McDermott KW(1), Lantos PL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuropathology, Institute of Psychiatry, London, UK.

The subependymal layer (SEL) of the postnatal marmoset, a simian primate, has
been investigated by histological and electron microscopic techniques. Although
well documented in rodents, little is known about this layer in primates. The
distribution of the SEL in marmosets is most extensive at birth around the
anterior lateral ventricles, where the layer is generally 5-10 cells deep;
however, there is considerable regional variation. With age the size of the SEL
decreases dramatically, becoming very poorly demarcated in adult animals.
Ultrastructurally, many subependymal cells in neonatal and young brains display
the features of undifferentiated cells, although neurons and glia are also
present. Cells displaying features intermediate between astrocytes and
undifferentiated SEL cells are occasionally encountered. In adults
undifferentiated cells are seen rarely and the former SEL is composed primarily
of glial and neuronal processes. Thus the layer in primates probably represents a
site of continued cellular differentiation in the postnatal brain and as such
must play an important role in the final stages of cortical development.


PMCID: PMC1260534
PMID: 1810935  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4291. J Pharmacol Exp Ther. 1991 Oct;259(1):345-55.

FCE 23884, substrate-dependent interaction with the dopaminergic system. I.
Preclinical behavioral studies.

Buonamici M(1), Mantegani S, Cervini MA, Maj R, Rossi AC, Caccia C, Carfagna N,
Carminati P, Fariello RG.

Author information: 
(1)R&D Farmitalia Carlo Erba-Erbamont Group, Central Nervous System Department,
Nerviano, MI, Italy.

FCE 23884, a newly synthetized ergoline derivative, shows dopamine (DA) agonist
or antagonist properties depending on the functional state of the biological
substrate. The compound behaves as a full DA antagonist in normal animals, but
shows full agonist properties in denervated models in the same dose range. In
normal animals, FCE 23884 impairs Sidmans avoidance in rats, reduces spontaneous 
locomotion in mice and monkeys and antagonizes apomorphine-induced climbing
behavior in mice, yawning in rats, emesis in dogs and amphetamine-induced
toxicity in grouped mice. After experimental procedures resulting in severe DA
depletion, FCE 23884 behaves as a powerful DA-agonist mainly at D-1 receptors.
FCE 23884 induces contralateral turning behavior in 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned
rats and reverses 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-induced akinesia
in monkeys and reserpine-induced hypokinesia in mice. These results indicate that
the antagonist or agonist activity of FCE 23884 is substrate-dependent and mostly
related to the presence or absence of DA. This leads to the apparently
paradoxical suggestion that the compound could be useful both in psychotic states
and extrapyramidal diseases, i.e., in clinical conditions characterized by either
excessive or impaired DAergic neurotransmission.


PMID: 1681087  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

