

43. Nat Commun. 2021 Nov 16;12(1):6608. doi: 10.1038/s41467-021-26976-4.

Simultaneous functional MRI of two awake marmosets.

Gilbert KM(1)(2), Cléry JC(3), Gati JS(3)(4), Hori Y(3), Johnston KD(5)(6),
Mashkovtsev A(3), Selvanayagam J(3)(7), Zeman P(3), Menon RS(3)(4), Schaeffer
DJ(8), Everling S(3)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Functional and Metabolic Mapping, The University of Western
Ontario, London, ON, Canada. kgilbert@robarts.ca.
(2)Department of Medical Biophysics, The University of Western Ontario, London,
ON, Canada. kgilbert@robarts.ca.
(3)Centre for Functional and Metabolic Mapping, The University of Western
Ontario, London, ON, Canada.
(4)Department of Medical Biophysics, The University of Western Ontario, London,
ON, Canada.
(5)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, The University of Western Ontario, 
London, ON, Canada.
(6)Brain and Mind Institute, The University of Western Ontario, London, ON,
Canada.
(7)Graduate Program in Neuroscience, The University of Western Ontario, London,
ON, Canada.
(8)Department of Neurobiology, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, USA.

Social cognition is a dynamic process that requires the perception and
integration of a complex set of idiosyncratic features between interacting
conspecifics. Here we present a method for simultaneously measuring the
whole-brain activation of two socially interacting marmoset monkeys using
functional magnetic resonance imaging. MRI hardware (a radiofrequency coil and
peripheral devices) and image-processing pipelines were developed to assess brain
responses to socialization, both on an intra-brain and inter-brain level.
Notably, the brain activation of a marmoset when viewing a second marmoset
in-person versus when viewing a pre-recorded video of the same marmoset-i.e.,
when either capable or incapable of socially interacting with a visible
conspecific-demonstrates increased activation in the face-patch network. This
method enables a wide range of possibilities for potentially studying social
function and dysfunction in a non-human primate model.

© 2021. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41467-021-26976-4 
PMCID: PMC8595428
PMID: 34785685  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


44. Neuroscience. 2022 Jan 1;480:143-154. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2021.11.009.
Epub 2021 Nov 11.

Co-registration of Imaging Modalities (MRI, CT and PET) to Perform Frameless
Stereotaxic Robotic Injections in the Common Marmoset.

Kwan C(1), Kang MS(2), Nuara SG(3), Gourdon JC(3), Bédard D(1), Tardif CL(4),
Hopewell R(5), Ross K(5), Bdair H(6), Hamadjida A(1), Massarweh G(5), Soucy
JP(7), Luo W(8), Del Cid Pellitero E(9), Shlaifer I(8), Durcan TM(8), Fon EA(9), 
Rosa-Neto P(10), Frey S(11), Huot P(12).

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Group, Montreal Neurological Institute-Hospital (The
Neuro), Montreal, QC, Canada.
(2)McGill University Research Centre for Studies in Aging, Douglas Research
Centre, Montreal, QC, Canada.
(3)Comparative Medicine & Animal Resource Centre, McGill University, Montreal,
QC, Canada.
(4)Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, McGill University, Montreal, QC,
Canada; Department of Biomedical Engineering, McGill University, Montreal, QC,
Canada; McConnell Brain Imaging Centre, Montreal Neurological Institute-Hospital 
(The Neuro), Montreal, QC, Canada.
(5)Neurodegenerative Disease Group, Montreal Neurological Institute-Hospital (The
Neuro), Montreal, QC, Canada; McConnell Brain Imaging Centre, Montreal
Neurological Institute-Hospital (The Neuro), Montreal, QC, Canada.
(6)Neurodegenerative Disease Group, Montreal Neurological Institute-Hospital (The
Neuro), Montreal, QC, Canada; Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, McGill
University, Montreal, QC, Canada; McConnell Brain Imaging Centre, Montreal
Neurological Institute-Hospital (The Neuro), Montreal, QC, Canada.
(7)McConnell Brain Imaging Centre, Montreal Neurological Institute-Hospital (The 
Neuro), Montreal, QC, Canada.
(8)Neurodegenerative Disease Group, Montreal Neurological Institute-Hospital (The
Neuro), Montreal, QC, Canada; The Neuro's Early Drug Discovery Unit, McGill
University, Montreal, QC, Canada.
(9)Neurodegenerative Disease Group, Montreal Neurological Institute-Hospital (The
Neuro), Montreal, QC, Canada; Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, McGill
University, Montreal, QC, Canada; Movement Disorder Clinic, Division of
Neurology, Department of Neuroscience, McGill University Health Centre, Montreal,
QC, Canada.
(10)McGill University Research Centre for Studies in Aging, Douglas Research
Centre, Montreal, QC, Canada; Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, McGill
University, Montreal, QC, Canada; McConnell Brain Imaging Centre, Montreal
Neurological Institute-Hospital (The Neuro), Montreal, QC, Canada.
(11)Rogue Research Inc, Montreal, QC, Canada.
(12)Neurodegenerative Disease Group, Montreal Neurological Institute-Hospital
(The Neuro), Montreal, QC, Canada; Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery,
McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada; Movement Disorder Clinic, Division of
Neurology, Department of Neuroscience, McGill University Health Centre, Montreal,
QC, Canada. Electronic address: philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.

The common marmoset has emerged as a popular model in neuroscience research, in
part due to its reproductive efficiency, genetic and neuroanatomical similarities
to humans and the successful generation of transgenic lines. Stereotaxic
procedures in marmosets are guided by 2D stereotaxic atlases, which are
constructed with a limited number of animals and fail to account for
inter-individual variability in skull and brain size. Here, we developed a
frameless imaging-guided stereotaxic system that improves upon traditional
approaches by using subject-specific registration of computed tomography (CT),
magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and positron emission tomography (PET) data to
identify a surgical target, namely the putamen, in two marmosets. The skull
surface was laser-scanned to create a point cloud that was registered to the 3D
reconstruction of the skull from CT. Reconstruction of the skull, as well as of
the brain from MR images, was crucial for surgical planning. Localisation and
injection into the putamen was done using a 6-axis robotic arm controlled by a
surgical navigation software (Brainsight™). Integration of subject-specific
registration and frameless stereotaxic navigation allowed target localisation
specific to each animal. Injection of alpha-synuclein fibrils into the putamen
triggered progressive neurodegeneration of the nigro-striatal system, a key
feature of Parkinson's disease. Four months post-surgery, a PET scan found
evidence of nigro-striatal denervation, supporting accurate targeting of the
putamen during co-registration and subsequent surgery. Our results suggest that
this approach, coupled with frameless stereotaxic neuronavigation, is accurate in
localising surgical targets and can be used to assess endpoints for longitudinal 
studies.

Copyright © 2021 IBRO. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2021.11.009 
PMID: 34774970  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

