

4300. Monatsschr Kinderheilkd. 1991 Aug;139(8):434-41.

[The significance of PCDD's/PCDF's (dioxins) in pediatrics].

[Article in German]

Krüger N(1), Helge H, Neubert D.

Author information: 
(1)Kinderklinik, Freien Universität, Berlin.

No epidemiological data are available up to now which reveal adverse effects
induced by dioxins during an exposure through breast milk. Furthermore, very few 
data on the concentration of PCDDs/PCDFs in the newborn and during the first year
of life have been published. Of all PCDDs/PCDFs, the substance with the highest
toxicity is 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin. However, in the environment this
congener is often only a minor component. A sensitive biological effect triggered
by TCDD is the enzyme induction of hepatic monooxygenases. Using a
14CO2-breath-test the apparent enzyme induction by
2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) of the metabolic conversion of
[3-methyl14C]-caffeine was studied during the perinatal period in Wistar rats and
in a non-human-primate (marmoset, Callithrix jacchus). It could be shown that the
apparent induction of monooxygenase activity by TCDD in rat offspring as measured
with the breath-test, is dose-dependent and mainly achieved by postnatal exposure
via mothers' milk. Our data indicate that caffeine is a convenient substrate for 
studying monooxygenase activities (probably P450 IA-dependent) to be induced by
TCDD, and very likely also by other congeners. These results, therefore, may
provide the rationale for applying a [13C]-caffeine breath-test in human newborn 
and infants to analyse possible biological effects induced by TCDD and similar
pollutants in breast-fed children. Since PCDDs/PCDFs are pollutants without any
benefit, strong efforts should be continued to further reduce the output of
dioxins, the human exposure, and thereby also concentrations in human
milk.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)


PMID: 1961212  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4301. Indian J Exp Biol. 1991 Aug;29(8):715-20.

De novo biosynthesis and localization of inhibin in marmoset (Callithrix jacchus)
and rat epididymis.

Hurkadli KS(1), Joseph R, Garde SV, Sheth AR.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Research in Reproduction (ICMR), Bombay, India.

Using specific polyclonal antibodies generated against a 13 Kd human testicular
inhibin, immunocytochemical localization was carried out in epididymis of intact 
and castrated marmoset monkey and rat epididymis. Inhibin was found to be present
in the cytoplasm of epithelial cells of caput, corpus and cauda epididymis. The
intensity of staining and pattern of distribution did not change following
castration. Further, the in vitro biosynthesis of inhibin studied by
incorporating 3H-leucine and precipitating it with specific antibody indicated
maximum biosynthesis in the corpus epididymis in case of marmosets and cauda in
case of rats. Following castration in rats, the epididymal tissue still retained 
the capacity to biosynthesize inhibin. These studies indicate that marmoset and
rat epididymis are capable of biosynthesizing/absorbing inhibin and whose
synthesis does not depend on androgens.


PMID: 1769713  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

