

4305. Arterioscler Thromb. 1991 Jul-Aug;11(4):1030-41.

Lipoprotein(a) and apolipoprotein(a) in a New World monkey, the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus). Association of variable plasma lipoprotein(a) levels with a
single apolipoprotein(a) isoform.

Guo HC(1), Michel JB, Blouquit Y, Chapman MJ.

Author information: 
(1)INSERM Unité 321, Hôpital de la Pitié, Paris, France.

In an earlier report (Chapman et al, Biochemistry 1979;18:5096-5108), we
suggested that the common marmoset may represent an important model for the study
of human plasma lipoprotein metabolism. We now extend the interest of this monkey
model to the study of lipoprotein(a) (Lp[a]) and apolipoprotein(a) (apo[a]).
Density gradient ultracentrifugal fractionation of marmoset plasma revealed a
bimodal distribution of Lp(a), with one peak of concentration occurring in
association with very low density lipoproteins (VLDLs) and a second in the
density range 1.040-1.080 g/ml. The dense Lp(a) subspecies displayed
physicochemical properties (chemical composition, particle size, and
electrophoretic mobility) that closely resembled those of its counterpart in
humans and baboons but that were distinct from those of low density lipoprotein
(LDL). Furthermore, the particle size of marmoset Lp(a) was invariant (31 nm)
over the density interval 1.040-1.080 g/ml, whereas that of LDL decreased
progressively with an increase in density (approximately 26-25.2 nm). Use of
polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies to human apo(a) and of a polyclonal antibody
to marmoset Lp(a) allowed immunologic identification of a single apo(a) isoform
in the marmoset whose size was similar to that of apo B-100; apo(a) and apo B-100
were associated in Lp(a) particles by a disulfide linkage. The total protein mass
of apo-Lp(a) was estimated to be 800,000 or more by electrophoresis in sodium
dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide-agarose gels. The amino acid compositions of
marmoset and human apo(a) resembled each other but were distinct from those of
the corresponding forms of apo B-100. Immunologic evidence is provided for a high
degree of cross reactivity between apo(a) in marmosets, baboons, and humans,
supporting the idea of the existence of a marked degree of structural homology
between these proteins. In addition, electroimmunoblotting of marmoset apo(a) and
marmoset plasminogen showed that these proteins shared certain epitopes in
common, suggesting that marmoset apo(a) may possess kringle-like structural
features. Finally, despite possession of a single apo(a) isoform, marmoset Lp(a) 
levels varied over a 100-fold range (0.5-49 mg/dl plasma). Considered together,
our present findings suggest that the common marmoset monkey constitutes a unique
model in which to study the regulation of apo(a) gene expression and the
posttranslational processing of apo(a), as well as factors that modulate the
synthesis, intravascular metabolism, and cellular catabolism of Lp(a).

DOI: 10.1161/01.atv.11.4.1030 
PMID: 1829630  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4306. J Periodontal Res. 1991 Jul;26(4):323-32.

Immunohistochemical localization of collagenous components in healthy periodontal
tissues of the rat and marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). II. Distribution of
collagen types IV, V and VI.

Romanos GE(1), Schröter-Kermani C, Hinz N, Wachtel HC, Bernimoulin JP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Periodontology, Dental School North, Freie Universität, Berlin, 
Germany.

The immunohistochemical distribution of collagen types IV, V and VI has been
demonstrated in healthy periodontal tissues of rats and marmosets following
decalcification of the maxillae and mandibulae in 0.2 N HCl. An intense
fluorescence with anti-collagen type IV antibodies was demonstrated in the
basement membranes of the epithelium and of the blood vessels and nerves. In the 
alveolar bone stroma and in the periodontal ligament (PL) collagen type IV was
present only in the basal membranes of the blood vessels and nerves. In
comparison, collagen type V was observed in a fibrillar pattern in the gingival
connective tissue, as well as the PL. In the PL, type V collagenous fibers
demonstrated a parallel distribution with stronger fluorescence near the cementum
surface. Collagen type VI could be demonstrated in fine fibers present in the
gingival connective tissue and the PL. Blood vessels and nerves were not stained 
in the marmoset, but were in the rat, where a localization of collagen type VI
was demonstrated in these areas. Alveolar bone and cementum, as well as the
Sharpey's fibers embedded in these tissues, were not stained with antibodies
against collagen type V and type VI, but a pericellular localization of these
collagenous components could be observed. Collectively, these results provide
basic information on the relative distribution of different collagen types in
normal tissues of rats and marmosets that will be required for future studies on 
the effects of pathological, reparative and regenerative processes.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0765.1991.tb02070.x 
PMID: 1714953  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

