

4306. J Periodontal Res. 1991 Jul;26(4):323-32.

Immunohistochemical localization of collagenous components in healthy periodontal
tissues of the rat and marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). II. Distribution of
collagen types IV, V and VI.

Romanos GE(1), Schröter-Kermani C, Hinz N, Wachtel HC, Bernimoulin JP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Periodontology, Dental School North, Freie Universität, Berlin, 
Germany.

The immunohistochemical distribution of collagen types IV, V and VI has been
demonstrated in healthy periodontal tissues of rats and marmosets following
decalcification of the maxillae and mandibulae in 0.2 N HCl. An intense
fluorescence with anti-collagen type IV antibodies was demonstrated in the
basement membranes of the epithelium and of the blood vessels and nerves. In the 
alveolar bone stroma and in the periodontal ligament (PL) collagen type IV was
present only in the basal membranes of the blood vessels and nerves. In
comparison, collagen type V was observed in a fibrillar pattern in the gingival
connective tissue, as well as the PL. In the PL, type V collagenous fibers
demonstrated a parallel distribution with stronger fluorescence near the cementum
surface. Collagen type VI could be demonstrated in fine fibers present in the
gingival connective tissue and the PL. Blood vessels and nerves were not stained 
in the marmoset, but were in the rat, where a localization of collagen type VI
was demonstrated in these areas. Alveolar bone and cementum, as well as the
Sharpey's fibers embedded in these tissues, were not stained with antibodies
against collagen type V and type VI, but a pericellular localization of these
collagenous components could be observed. Collectively, these results provide
basic information on the relative distribution of different collagen types in
normal tissues of rats and marmosets that will be required for future studies on 
the effects of pathological, reparative and regenerative processes.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0765.1991.tb02070.x 
PMID: 1714953  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4307. J Neurosci. 1991 Jun;11(6):1485-95.

Olfactory bulb granule cell aggregates: morphological evidence for
interperikaryal electrotonic coupling via gap junctions.

Reyher CK(1), Lübke J, Larsen WJ, Hendrix GM, Shipley MT, Baumgarten HG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Max-Planck-Institut für Biophysikalische Chemie,
Göttingen, Germany.

Anaxonic interneurons of the granule cell type in the mammalian main olfactory
bulb (MOB) are characterized by prominent membrane specializations, which include
reciprocal, interdendritic chemical and electrical synapses; however, the latter 
are thought to be restricted to the external plexiform layer (EPL) and connect
granule-mitral- and granule-tufted-cell dendrites (Landis et al., 1974). The
present study focuses on interperikaryal membrane specializations between
tangentially oriented aggregates of granule microneurons in the lamina granularis
interna (IGL). Both infraprimate (Rattus norvegicus, Gerbillus perpallidus) and
primate species (Callithrix jacchus) were studied using the following methods:
(1) transmission electron microscopy (TEM), (2) freeze-fracture analysis, (3)
light and TEM immunohistochemistry using affinity-purified antibodies directed
against the connexin-32 or connexin-43 carboxy tail fragment of the gap-junction 
protein (GJP), and (4) intracellular Lucifer yellow injections in fixed tissue
(LYF technique). Freeze-fracture replicas of the MOB-IGL showed that adjacent
granule cell perikarya have numerous particle aggregates on the cytoplasmic
membrane; in terms of their structure and arrangement, such particles are
characteristic of gap junctions. The existence of junctional membranes was
substantiated by application of antibodies against GJP demonstrating punctate
immunoreactivity, frequently confined to the interperikaryal plasmalemmae of
granule cells in the IGL and their dendritic processes in the EPL. Upon TEM
analysis, GJP-like immunoreactivity was additionally found in membranous
organelles, including Golgi apparati and associated vesicular components. In
order to test the permeability of identified membrane specializations, the LYF
technique was used, which resulted in bright fluorescence of the perikaryal and
dendritic components of the transsomatically injected neuron and staining of
neighboring neurons with similar morphology. These findings imply that small
molecules can diffuse across the interperikaryal membrane specializations. The
existence of gap junctions between granule cell perikarya suggests that there is 
a significant, low-resistance electrical transmission between aggregated granule 
cells. This coupling might permit synchronization of neural discharge among small
aggregates of these neurons. Gap junctions between granule cells may also serve
signaling functions associated with the protracted period of granule cell
development.


PMCID: PMC6575397
PMID: 1904478  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

