

4308. J Androl. 1991 May-Jun;12(3):214-20.

Collection and analysis of semen from the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Cui KH(1), Flaherty SP, Newble CD, Guerin MV, Napier AJ, Matthews CD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, University of Adelaide, Queen
Elizabeth Hospital, Woodville, South Australia.

The authors examined the seminal characteristics of 16 male common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus) to provide baseline data for future studies of the
reproductive biology of this species. Semen samples were collected by
electroejaculation. There was considerable inter- and intra-male variation in all
seminal characteristics. The median seminal volume was 30 microliters (range 8 to
85 microliters), and the median total sperm count was 5.1 x 10(6) sperm (range,
0.1 to 43 x 10(6]. The median progressive sperm motility was 48% (range, 10% to
76%), and 49% of the sperm exhibited normal morphology (range, 24% to 81%). Three
types of sperm head abnormalities and eight types of tail defects were noted.
Tail defects were common (median, 50%; range, 17% to 76%), whereas head defects
were relatively rare (median, 4.5%; range, 0% to 24%). The results indicate that 
semen samples can be routinely collected from this species, but considerable
inter- and intra-male variation can be expected. It is therefore important to
examine several semen samples from each male marmoset to obtain an accurate
seminal picture.


PMID: 1917685  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4309. Arch Androl. 1991 May-Jun;26(3):143-54.

Morphological and histochemical effects of 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p dioxin
(TCDD) on marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) testes.

Rune GM(1), deSouza P, Krowke R, Merker HJ, Neubert D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, Free University of Berlin, Germany.

The testes of marmosets (Callithrix jacchus), which had been treated with a
single dose of 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) (0.3 microgram to 10
micrograms/l kg body weight (BW)) were studied after 7 days using morphological
and histochemical techniques. Light microscopic and electron microscopic
examination revealed decreased intercellular contact in the germinal epithelium, 
as indicated first by enlarged intercellular spaces between the Sertoli's cells
and between the Sertoli's cells and neighboring germ cells (i.e., spermatogonia
and preleptotene spermatocytes), particularly in the basic compartment of the
germinal epithelium. Second, decreased intercellular contact was indicated by the
accumulation of premature spermatids and spermatocytes in the tubular lumen after
TCDD treatment. The Sertoli's cells exhibited an increased amount of lipids,
phagolysosomes, and vacuoles in their cytoplasm. Spermatids were frequently
affected by TCDD, particularly during early spermiogenesis. These alterations
included vacuolization of the cytoplasm and the development of additional
germinal vesicles. This special effect on spermiogenesis became even more evident
quantitatively by determination and counting of tubular stages in semithin
sections. Tubular determination on the basis of the appearance of spermatids
revealed that the ratio of tubular stages I to III became lower and that of
stages V to VII became higher, dose dependently, indicating a maturation stop at 
the beginning of spermiogenesis caused by TCDD treatment. After TCDD treatment,
Leydig's cells were morphologically unaffected, but histochemical investigations 
revealed decreased activity of 3 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (3 beta-HSD). 
The sensitivity of the applied methods was different in view of the level of
unaffection. The effect of Leydig's cells, as indicated by the decreased activity
of 3 beta-HSD, had already been found at a dose of 1 microgram/kg BW TCDD,
whereas clear-cut morphological and morphometrical effects were seen at 3
micrograms/kg BW for the first time. Moreover, with the special effect on
spermiogenesis in marmoset monkeys, the findings demonstrate that the toxicity of
TCDD on testicular morphology is species specific.

DOI: 10.3109/01485019108987637 
PMID: 1872647  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

