

4309. Arch Androl. 1991 May-Jun;26(3):143-54.

Morphological and histochemical effects of 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p dioxin
(TCDD) on marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) testes.

Rune GM(1), deSouza P, Krowke R, Merker HJ, Neubert D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, Free University of Berlin, Germany.

The testes of marmosets (Callithrix jacchus), which had been treated with a
single dose of 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) (0.3 microgram to 10
micrograms/l kg body weight (BW)) were studied after 7 days using morphological
and histochemical techniques. Light microscopic and electron microscopic
examination revealed decreased intercellular contact in the germinal epithelium, 
as indicated first by enlarged intercellular spaces between the Sertoli's cells
and between the Sertoli's cells and neighboring germ cells (i.e., spermatogonia
and preleptotene spermatocytes), particularly in the basic compartment of the
germinal epithelium. Second, decreased intercellular contact was indicated by the
accumulation of premature spermatids and spermatocytes in the tubular lumen after
TCDD treatment. The Sertoli's cells exhibited an increased amount of lipids,
phagolysosomes, and vacuoles in their cytoplasm. Spermatids were frequently
affected by TCDD, particularly during early spermiogenesis. These alterations
included vacuolization of the cytoplasm and the development of additional
germinal vesicles. This special effect on spermiogenesis became even more evident
quantitatively by determination and counting of tubular stages in semithin
sections. Tubular determination on the basis of the appearance of spermatids
revealed that the ratio of tubular stages I to III became lower and that of
stages V to VII became higher, dose dependently, indicating a maturation stop at 
the beginning of spermiogenesis caused by TCDD treatment. After TCDD treatment,
Leydig's cells were morphologically unaffected, but histochemical investigations 
revealed decreased activity of 3 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (3 beta-HSD). 
The sensitivity of the applied methods was different in view of the level of
unaffection. The effect of Leydig's cells, as indicated by the decreased activity
of 3 beta-HSD, had already been found at a dose of 1 microgram/kg BW TCDD,
whereas clear-cut morphological and morphometrical effects were seen at 3
micrograms/kg BW for the first time. Moreover, with the special effect on
spermiogenesis in marmoset monkeys, the findings demonstrate that the toxicity of
TCDD on testicular morphology is species specific.

DOI: 10.3109/01485019108987637 
PMID: 1872647  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4310. Matrix. 1991 Apr;11(2):125-32.

Immunohistochemical distribution of the collagen types IV, V, VI and glycoprotein
laminin in the healthy rat, marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) and human gingivae.

Romanos G(1), Schröter-Kermani C, Hinz N, Bernimoulin JP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Periodontology, Dental School North, Freie Universität Berlin,
FRG.

The purpose of this study was to demonstrate the localization of collagen types
IV, V and VI as well as the glycoprotein laminin in biopsies of healthy rat,
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) and human gingivae. The slices, after the use of
indirect immunofluorescence (incubation with antibodies against these
extracellular matrix components), showed the same distribution with the anti-type
IV and laminin antibodies on the basement membranes of the epithelium, blood
vessels and nerves. Collagen type V, as a filamentous, and collagen type VI, as
microfibrillar components, were localized in a similar pattern in the different
species. In contrast to the other species, collagen type VI could not be found
near the basement membranes of vessels and nerves of the marmoset gingiva. This
result shows differences between human and monkey tissues, but not between rat
and human gingivae, and conforms the heterogeneity of collagen type VI in the
various cell and tissue types.

DOI: 10.1016/s0934-8832(11)80216-7 
PMID: 1906570  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

