

4318. Parodontol. 1991 Feb;2(1):47-59.

[Collagen as a basic element of the periodontium: immunohistochemical aspects in 
the human and animals. 2. Cementum and periodontal ligament].

[Article in German]

Romanos GE(1), Schröter-Kermani C, Bernimoulin JP.

Author information: 
(1)Polikliniken für ZMK Nord, Freie Universität Berlin.

Immunohistochemical knowledge of the distribution of the collagen types in the
cementum and periodontal ligament were reported in this paper. Because of the
different localization of each of these collagenous components in the two
periodontal tissues its function in the matrix was explored. It was also possible
to clarify the role of collagen in healthy periodontium as well as in
regeneration and wound healing mechanisms.


PMID: 1854918  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4319. Br J Plast Surg. 1991 Feb-Mar;44(2):135-41.

Specificity for homonymous pathways following repair of peripheral nerves with
treated skeletal muscle autografts--in the primate.

Glasby MA(1), Davies AH, Gattuso JM, Heywood AJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, University of Edinburgh Medical School.

While distal influences acting both tropically and trophically upon regenerating 
nerve fibres are not in doubt, the specificity of such influences is unresolved. 
The present experiments were designed to test whether pioneering axons
regenerating through a large muscle graft showed specificity for their homonymous
distal stumps if faced with a choice of pathways. Regeneration was assessed with 
respect to nerve conduction, the electromyograph, isometric tension and
morphological indices of nerve regeneration in the median and ulnar nerves of
non-human primates. Reinnervation of both distal stumps with functional
neuromuscular transmission was found to take place by growth of nerve fibres from
either proximal nerve into either distal stump. There was thus no evidence of
specific homonymous reinnervation. The implications of this finding are discussed
from a mechanistic and a clinical point of view.

DOI: 10.1016/0007-1226(91)90048-o 
PMID: 1850313  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

