

4325. Arch Toxicol. 1991;65(3):213-9.

Polyhalogenated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans and the immune system. 2. In 
vitro effects of 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) on lymphocytes of
venous blood from man and a non-human primate (Callithrix jacchus).

Neubert R(1), Jacob-Müller U, Helge H, Stahlmann R, Neubert D.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Toxikologie und Embryopharmakologie, Freie Universität Berlin,
Federal Republic of Germany.

The effect of 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) on poke weed
mitogen-stimulated proliferation and differentiation of peripheral lymphocytes
was studied in vitro with cells from a non-human primate (marmoset monkey,
Callithrix jacchus) and from man. Monoclonal antibodies and flow cytometry
(FACScan) were used for analysis. The extent of the overall mitogen-stimulated
proliferation of isolated lymphocytes in vitro from marmoset blood was only
slightly reduced in the presence of TCDD compared to the solvent control (0.01%
DMSO). However, incubation with TCDD in the culture medium together with the
mitogen led to a pronounced decrease in the percentage of the lymphocyte subset
with the surface marker CD4, and a concomitant increase in the percentage of CD8+
cells. The lowest concentration found to be effective in vitro was 1 x 10(-13) M 
TCDD (25 fg TCDD/ml). When culturing lymphocytes from human blood of different
donors under identical conditions in the presence of TCDD and the mitogen,
corresponding effects were observed to those seen with marmoset cells. A closer
analysis of the T lymphocyte subsets affected revealed the CD4+ CDw29+
(helper-inducer cells) to be the main target for the action of TCDD. A clear-cut 
change in the percentage of this subpopulation was induced at concentrations as
low as 1 x 10(-13) M TCDD. The development of the IL-2-marker in culture was only
slightly affected by TCDD, and concentrations of 1 x 10(-12) M were required to
slightly reduce the number of CD2+CD25+ cells.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1007/BF02307311 
PMID: 1905127  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4326. Anat Embryol (Berl). 1991;183(2):179-91.

Ultrastructural and histochemical characterization of marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus) Leydig cells during postnatal development.

Rune GM(1), de Souza P, Merker HJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, Free University of Berlin, Federal Republic of Germany.

Leydig cell development was investigated in the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus)
testis from 24 h post partum (pp) up to sexual maturity, using ultrastructural
and histochemical methods. Electron microscopically three different Leydig cell
(LC) types could be distinguished: neonatal, immature and adult LCs. Neonatal LCs
exhibited a round nucleus, large tubular mitochondria, abundant smooth
endoplasmic reticulum (SER), and few small fat vesicles. The typical immature LCs
showed a lobulated nucleus, smaller tubulo-vesicular mitochondria, less SER, and 
larger fat vesicles. Adult LCs contained an invaginated nucleus, tubular
mitochondria, abundant SER, large fat vesicles, and lipofuscin granules. Neonatal
Leydig cells occurred from 24 h pp up to 10 weeks pp, immature LCs from 2 weeks
pp up to 20 weeks pp, and adult LCs from 20 weeks onwards. The appearance of a
new LC population was accompanied by a numeric decrease and occurrence of
regressive cells of the previous population. Developmental steps of
differentiation were recognizable in the population of immature and adult LCs by 
the amount of SER (immature LCs), the size of mitochondria (adult LCs), and the
morphology of the nucleus at the beginning of their appearance. Activity of 3
beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (3 beta-HSD) was moderate in immature LCs from 
2 weeks pp to 12 weeks pp and strong in adult LCs. Neonatal LCs were not stained 
nor were immature LCs from 16 weeks to 20 weeks. Comparison of the
ultrastructural classification of LCs and the activity of 3 beta-HSD showed that 
the capacity for steroid biosynthesis does not necessarily include morphological 
differences. Activity of non-specific esterase (nE) was found in LCs except of
the period between 16 and 25 weeks pp. A transient decrease of activity was seen 
during the first week of life. Both, the phase of decrease and the phase of
inactivity were followed by distinct activation of nE. Lipid content and the size
of single fat droplets in LCs, as seen with Sudan black staining, varied during
postnatal development. Finely stained granules were typical for neonatal LCs,
whereas larger droplets were found in immature and adult cells. Particularly high
amounts of lipids were seen at one week and between 32-60 weeks pp, which was the
regression of neonatal LCs, showing ultrastructurally higher amounts of lipids
than intact neonatal LCs. High amounts of lipid during puberty (32-60 weeks pp)
accompanied by an activation of nE at the onset of puberty suggest an initiative 
role in steroidogenesis.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1007/BF00174398 
PMID: 1903613  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

