

4326. Anat Embryol (Berl). 1991;183(2):179-91.

Ultrastructural and histochemical characterization of marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus) Leydig cells during postnatal development.

Rune GM(1), de Souza P, Merker HJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, Free University of Berlin, Federal Republic of Germany.

Leydig cell development was investigated in the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus)
testis from 24 h post partum (pp) up to sexual maturity, using ultrastructural
and histochemical methods. Electron microscopically three different Leydig cell
(LC) types could be distinguished: neonatal, immature and adult LCs. Neonatal LCs
exhibited a round nucleus, large tubular mitochondria, abundant smooth
endoplasmic reticulum (SER), and few small fat vesicles. The typical immature LCs
showed a lobulated nucleus, smaller tubulo-vesicular mitochondria, less SER, and 
larger fat vesicles. Adult LCs contained an invaginated nucleus, tubular
mitochondria, abundant SER, large fat vesicles, and lipofuscin granules. Neonatal
Leydig cells occurred from 24 h pp up to 10 weeks pp, immature LCs from 2 weeks
pp up to 20 weeks pp, and adult LCs from 20 weeks onwards. The appearance of a
new LC population was accompanied by a numeric decrease and occurrence of
regressive cells of the previous population. Developmental steps of
differentiation were recognizable in the population of immature and adult LCs by 
the amount of SER (immature LCs), the size of mitochondria (adult LCs), and the
morphology of the nucleus at the beginning of their appearance. Activity of 3
beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (3 beta-HSD) was moderate in immature LCs from 
2 weeks pp to 12 weeks pp and strong in adult LCs. Neonatal LCs were not stained 
nor were immature LCs from 16 weeks to 20 weeks. Comparison of the
ultrastructural classification of LCs and the activity of 3 beta-HSD showed that 
the capacity for steroid biosynthesis does not necessarily include morphological 
differences. Activity of non-specific esterase (nE) was found in LCs except of
the period between 16 and 25 weeks pp. A transient decrease of activity was seen 
during the first week of life. Both, the phase of decrease and the phase of
inactivity were followed by distinct activation of nE. Lipid content and the size
of single fat droplets in LCs, as seen with Sudan black staining, varied during
postnatal development. Finely stained granules were typical for neonatal LCs,
whereas larger droplets were found in immature and adult cells. Particularly high
amounts of lipids were seen at one week and between 32-60 weeks pp, which was the
regression of neonatal LCs, showing ultrastructurally higher amounts of lipids
than intact neonatal LCs. High amounts of lipid during puberty (32-60 weeks pp)
accompanied by an activation of nE at the onset of puberty suggest an initiative 
role in steroidogenesis.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1007/BF00174398 
PMID: 1903613  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4327. J Neural Transm Park Dis Dement Sect. 1991;3(3):203-13.

Synergism of the AMPA-antagonist NBQX and the NMDA-antagonist CPP with L-dopa in 
models of Parkinson's disease.

Löschmann PA(1), Lange KW, Kunow M, Rettig KJ, Jähnig P, Honoré T, Turski L,
Wachtel H, Jenner P, Marsden CD.

Author information: 
(1)Parkinson's Disease Society Experimental Research Laboratories, King's
College, London, United Kingdom.

Degeneration of dopaminergic nigrostriatal neurons in Parkinson's disease results
in an overactivity of excitatory glutamatergic projections from the subthalamic
nucleus to the output nuclei of the basal ganglia resulting in rigidity and
akinesia. In theory pharmacological blockade of these overactive systems should
improve parkinsonian symptomatology. The selective AMPA-antagonist NBQX and the
competitive NMDA-antagonist CPP are not effective in animal models of Parkinson's
disease when given alone but ameliorate parkinsonian symptomatology and stimulate
locomotor activity when co-administered with a threshold dose of L-Dopa. These
synergistic effects are seen in the MPTP-treated
(1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine) common marmoset and the rat with
unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesions of the substantia nigra. Therefore 
competitive NMDA and non-NMDA antagonists may offer a new therapeutic strategy
for the treatment of Parkinson's disease.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02259538 
PMID: 1835581  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

