

4334. Exp Brain Res. 1991;84(2):254-65.

The local domain for divergence of subcortical afferents to the striate and
extrastriate visual cortex in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus): a
multiple labelling study.

Kaske A(1), Dick A, Creutzfeldt OD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Max-Planck-Institute for Biophysical Chemistry,
Göttingen-Nikolausberg, Federal Republic of Germany.

In the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), the cortical projection from the
pulvinar and other diencephalic structures into the striate and prestriate cortex
was investigated with various fluorescent retrograde tracers. Single cortical
injections as well as multiple injections at distances of 1-2 mm with one tracer 
into an extended but coherent cortical region were applied. Fields with multiple 
injections were placed so that they touched each other (minimal distances 2 to 3 
mm). Retrogradely labelled cells in the LGN and/or the pulvinar were arranged in 
coherent columns, volumes or slabs, but cell volumes resulting from neighbouring 
cortical injections overlapped at their border (for details of the
thalamo-cortical topography see the companion paper Dick et al. (1991]. Double
labelled cells (dl) were only found in the zones of overlap of the cell volumes
labelled by the respective tracers. The relative number of dl-cells in these
overlap zones was 6.2 +/- 3.1%. The dl-frequency was the same in the various
nuclei of the pulvinar and the LGN. In the main layers of LGN, dl-cells were
found only in the overlap zone of two injection fields into area 17, but a few
dl-cells were found in interlaminar cells after injections into area 17 and 18.
Maximal cortical distances between injection fields which produced dl in the
pulvinar, were 3 to exceptionally 4 mm but dl was highest at injection distances 
less than or equal to 2.5 mm and decreased sharply at wider distances. Such
overlap zones were concerned with identical or overlapping regions of visual
field representation in the cortex and probably also in the pulvinar. Although in
individual experiments up to four different tracers were injected into different 
striate/prestriate regions, often embracing the same visual field representation,
individual cells in the pulvinar showed dl from maximally only two tracers
injected into neighbouring cortical regions. We conclude that dl in the posterior
thalamic projection nuclei is determined essentially by cortical distance and
thus reflects the local domain of branching of thalamo-cortical afferents.
Pruning of such branches during development may further restrict bifurcating
axons to identical visual field representations, but representation of identical 
visual field regions in different visual areas is not, per se, a sufficient
condition for dl. It is not found if such regions are further apart from each
other than the typical local domain of 2-3 mm, exceptionally up to 4 mm in one
experiment after injections into area 17 and MT.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1007/BF00231445 
PMID: 1712315  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4335. Exp Brain Res. 1991;84(2):233-53.

Topographical and topological organization of the thalamocortical projection to
the striate and prestriate cortex in the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Dick A(1), Kaske A, Creutzfeldt OD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Max-Planck-Institute for Biophysical Chemistry,
Göttingen-Nikolausberg, Federal Republic of Germany.

In eleven hemispheres of nine marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus), we have
investigated the thalamo-cortical organization of the projections from the
pulvinar to the striate and prestriate cortex. In each experiment, single or
multiple injections of various retrograde fluorescent tracers were injected into 
adjacent regions or areas. In two experiments, horseradish peroxidase (HRP) was
injected into the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) and the lateral pulvinar,
respectively. The results show that the thalamo-cortical projection from LGN to
striate cortex and from pulvinar to the prestriate cortex are similarly
organized, but the geniculo-striate projection is more precise than the
pulvinar-prestriate projection. The pulvinar-prestriate projection is
topographically organized and preserves topological neighbourhood relations.
Projection zones to the various visual areas are concentrically wrapped around
each other. The projection zone to area 18 constitutes a central core region. It 
begins ventro-laterally in PuL where the pulvinar is in contact with the LGN.
This contact zone we called the hilus region of the pulvinar. The area
18-projection zone stretches as a central cone into the posterior pulvinar
through PuL and into PuM. It is surrounded by the projection zone to the
posterior belt of area 19 and this in turn is surrounded by the projection zone
to the anterior belt of area 19. The projection zones to area 19 are then
surrounded medially and dorsally by zones projection to the temporal and parietal
association cortex, respectively. The projection zone to area MT is located
medio-ventrally in the posterior pulvinar (PuIP and surrounding nuclei) and
coincides with a densely myelinated region. Area 17 also receives input from the 
pulvinar but probably predominantly in the region of the central visual field.
The pulvinar zone projecting to area 17 is located ventrolaterally from the
central core region projecting to area 18 and is contiguous laterally with the
LGN. If the positions of the vertical and the horizontal meridian in the pulvinar
correspond to those in the respective cortical projection zones, a second order
visual field representation such as found in area 18, with the horizontal
meridian split at an eccentricity of about 7-10 degrees, can also be recognized
in the pulvinar.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00231444 
PMID: 1712314  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

