

4339. Brain Res Dev Brain Res. 1990 Dec 15;57(2):269-77.

Cell proliferation in the subependymal layer of the postnatal marmoset,
Callithrix jacchus.

McDermott KW(1), Lantos PL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuropathology, Institute of Psychiatry, London, U.K.

Cells of the subependymal layer (SEL) have been shown to be capable of continued 
postnatal cell division throughout life in rodents. To determine if the primate
brain behaves similarly, proliferative activity in the SEL of the marmoset has
been investigated by tritiated thymidine autoradiography and bromodeoxyuridine
immunocytochemistry. Both methods revealed the presence of DNA-synthesizing cells
at all postnatal ages studied. The labelling index (LI), low at birth, reached a 
peak of almost 4% at one month but decreased gradually thereafter. In animals
older than two years the LI was extremely low and labelled cells were rarely seen
anywhere in the brain. The cell density of the SEL, in contrast to the low LI,
was highest in neonates and decreased linearly with increasing age.
Bromodeoxyuridine immunoreactivity revealed the distribution of proliferating
cells in the SEL and neighbouring regions. Such cells were most abundant around
the anterior lateral ventricle where the SEL was most evident. Proliferating
cells were numerous in neonates, though not adjacent to the ependyma where counts
for the LI were made, and were mainly located dorsally and ventrally at the
junctions of the corpus callosum and caudate nucleus.

DOI: 10.1016/0165-3806(90)90053-2 
PMID: 2073725  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4340. Brain. 1990 Dec;113 ( Pt 6):1891-909.

Spongiform encephalopathy transmitted experimentally from Creutzfeldt-Jakob and
familial Gerstmann-Sträussler-Scheinker diseases.

Baker HF(1), Duchen LW, Jacobs JM, Ridley RM.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Psychiatry, MRC Clinical Research Centre, Harrow, Middlesex, UK.

A comparison was made of the effects of experimental intracerebral inoculation
into marmosets of brain homogenates from a case of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease
(CJD) and from a member of the Wo. family with cerebral amyloid and spongiform
encephalopathy--the Gerstmann-Sträussler-Scheinker (GSS) syndrome. All the
inoculated marmosets developed spongiform encephalopathy (SE) after incubation
times of 20-23 months in the CJD group and 25-32 months in the GSS group.
Subsequent passage from 1 affected animal in each group resulted in SE developing
after 17 months incubation. In every animal inoculated with CJD or GSS material
and in the 2 passage experiments the most severely affected region of the brain
was the thalamus which in all cases was almost totally occupied by vacuoles.
Other grey matter masses were less severely and less consistently affected.
Vacuolation was observed in the cerebellar granule cell layer as well as in the
molecular layer and the brain stem was finely vacuolated in all cases. There were
only minor and inconsistent differences between the disease transmitted from CJD 
compared with GSS and some differences between the original transmissions and the
SE caused by passaged inocula. Severe astrocytic gliosis accompanied the
spongiform changes but no amyloid was identified in any of the marmosets with
experimentally transmitted disease. The pathogenesis of the spongiform change in 
the thalamus was studied in a series of marmosets by light and electron
microscopy 3-22 months after the intracerebral inoculation of CJD or GSS
homogenates and was compared with controls. Dilated irregularly-shaped cisternae 
and the large complex vacuoles typical of SE, present in abundance after 18 and
22 months incubation, were considered most probably to be derived from cisternae 
of neuronal smooth endoplasmic reticulum.

DOI: 10.1093/brain/113.6.1891 
PMID: 2276050  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

