

4340. Brain. 1990 Dec;113 ( Pt 6):1891-909.

Spongiform encephalopathy transmitted experimentally from Creutzfeldt-Jakob and
familial Gerstmann-Sträussler-Scheinker diseases.

Baker HF(1), Duchen LW, Jacobs JM, Ridley RM.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Psychiatry, MRC Clinical Research Centre, Harrow, Middlesex, UK.

A comparison was made of the effects of experimental intracerebral inoculation
into marmosets of brain homogenates from a case of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease
(CJD) and from a member of the Wo. family with cerebral amyloid and spongiform
encephalopathy--the Gerstmann-Sträussler-Scheinker (GSS) syndrome. All the
inoculated marmosets developed spongiform encephalopathy (SE) after incubation
times of 20-23 months in the CJD group and 25-32 months in the GSS group.
Subsequent passage from 1 affected animal in each group resulted in SE developing
after 17 months incubation. In every animal inoculated with CJD or GSS material
and in the 2 passage experiments the most severely affected region of the brain
was the thalamus which in all cases was almost totally occupied by vacuoles.
Other grey matter masses were less severely and less consistently affected.
Vacuolation was observed in the cerebellar granule cell layer as well as in the
molecular layer and the brain stem was finely vacuolated in all cases. There were
only minor and inconsistent differences between the disease transmitted from CJD 
compared with GSS and some differences between the original transmissions and the
SE caused by passaged inocula. Severe astrocytic gliosis accompanied the
spongiform changes but no amyloid was identified in any of the marmosets with
experimentally transmitted disease. The pathogenesis of the spongiform change in 
the thalamus was studied in a series of marmosets by light and electron
microscopy 3-22 months after the intracerebral inoculation of CJD or GSS
homogenates and was compared with controls. Dilated irregularly-shaped cisternae 
and the large complex vacuoles typical of SE, present in abundance after 18 and
22 months incubation, were considered most probably to be derived from cisternae 
of neuronal smooth endoplasmic reticulum.

DOI: 10.1093/brain/113.6.1891 
PMID: 2276050  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4341. J Parasitol. 1990 Dec;76(6):869-73.

Transmammary transmission of mesocercariae of Alaria marcianae (Trematoda) in
experimentally infected primates.

Shoop WL(1), Font WF, Malatesta PF.

Author information: 
(1)Merck Institute for Therapeutic Research, Rahway, New Jersey 07065-0900.

A lactating primate, Callithrix jacchus, was infected experimentally with 600
mesocercariae of Alaria marcianae 10 days after parturition to determine if she
would transmit the mesocercariae to her offspring. Her twin infants were examined
4 wk postinoculation and 16 mesocercariae were found in their tissues. The female
was mated again and gave birth to a litter of triplets. She was not given
additional mesocercariae. One infant died within hours of birth without suckling 
and was found negative for any stage of A. marcianae. The other 2 were allowed to
nurse for 5 wk, examined and found to be infected with a total of 115
mesocercariae in various tissues, 1 metacercaria in the lungs, and 1 immature and
2 fully formed ovigerous adults in the small intestines. The female was examined 
at the same time and 246 mesocercariae were recovered. No other stage was found. 
Histological examination of her mammary glands revealed numerous mesocercariae in
the milk-laden alveoli.


PMID: 2254822  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

