

4342. J Reprod Fertil. 1990 Nov;90(2):427-37.

Size distribution of luteal cells from pregnant and non-pregnant marmoset monkeys
and a comparison of the morphology of marmoset luteal cells with those from the
human corpus luteum.

Webley GE(1), Richardson MC, Smith CA, Masson GM, Hearn JP.

Author information: 
(1)MRC/AFRC Comparative Physiology Group, Institute of Zoology, London, UK.

The size distribution of marmoset luteal cells was determined on Days 6, 14 and
20 after ovulation in non-pregnant cycles and in early pregnancy. Image analysis 
was used to estimate the cell diameter of dispersed cells prepared from the
marmoset corpus luteum (CL). Steroidogenic cells showed a size distribution
consistent with one population of cells. There was a significant increase in mean
cell diameter (P less than 0.05) from Day 6 to Day 14 in pregnant and
non-pregnant animals with no further increase on Day 20. Micrographs of marmoset 
luteal tissue showed cells of greater than 10 micron containing the organelles
typical of steroid-producing cells, and smaller non-steroidogenic cells
surrounding the steroid-producing cells. On the basis of microscopy, there were
no areas within the CL where cell composition was noticeably different. In
contrast, micrographs of human luteal tissue showed two types of steroidogenic
cell; most cells were similar to those in the marmoset CL but a smaller
population of smaller cells could be distinguished around the periphery and along
vascular septa. It is likely that these smaller and larger types of steroidogenic
cells are of theca and granulosa cell origin respectively, the two cell
populations differing in the degree of electron density and amount of rough
endoplasmic reticulum. A distinguishing feature between marmoset and human luteal
cells was the shape of the mitochondrian which were considerably rounder in
marmoset luteal cells. The origin of steroidogenic cells in the marmoset CL is
unclear, although in marmosets and man the luteal cell types display
morphological characteristics distinct from the large and small luteal cells
described for CL of the domestic ungulates.

DOI: 10.1530/jrf.0.0900427 
PMID: 2250242  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4343. J Reprod Fertil. 1990 Nov;90(2):411-8.

Extension of reproductive suppression by pheromonal cues in subordinate female
marmoset monkeys, Callithrix jacchus.

Barrett J(1), Abbott DH, George LM.

Author information: 
(1)MRC/AFRC Comparative Physiology Research Group, Institute of Zoology, London, 
UK.

Pheromonal signals from the dominant female marmoset monkey were implicated in
maintaining the suppression of LH secretion and ovulation in socially subordinate
females. When subordinate, and reproductively suppressed, female marmoset monkeys
were removed from their group without scent contact with their dominant females, 
subordinate females in control group 1 (N = 8) and control group 2 (N = 5),
ovulated 10.8 +/- 1.4 days and 10.4 +/- 0.8 days respectively (mean +/- s.e.m.)
after separation. Subordinate females (N = 8) removed from their dominant female 
and group, but maintained in scent contact only with their dominant females,
showed a delay in the onset of ovulation (31.0 +/- 6.4 days) compared with
control groups 1 and 2. Plasma LH concentrations of subordinate females during
the scent transfer phase were lower than in controls without scent transfer and
comparable to those seen whilst the females were subordinates in groups. Contact 
of subordinate females with olfactory stimuli from dominant females therefore
maintains the suppression of both LH secretion and ovulation in socially
subordinate female marmosets. Such pheromonal cues provide evidence of a
quantifiable link between dominant female marmosets and the maintenance of
physiological suppression of reproduction in their female subordinates.

DOI: 10.1530/jrf.0.0900411 
PMID: 2250240  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

