

4345. Parodontol. 1990 Nov;1(4):363-75.

[Collagen as a basic element of the periodontium: immunohistochemical aspects in 
the human and animal. 1. Gingiva and alveolar bone].

[Article in German]

Romanos GE(1), Bernimoulin JP.

Author information: 
(1)Polikliniken für ZMK Nord, Freie Universität Berlin.

The connective tissue (CT) is responsible for stability and function of the whole
periodontium. It consists of cells, which are embedded in the extracellular
matrix. Collagen plays the main role for the function of the periodontal unit.
Collagen types I, III, IV, V and VI are distributed in a different pattern in all
periodontal tissues, as has been here demonstrated in the gingiva and alveolar
bone. Collagen type I, as a characteristic collagen type of the hard tissues, has
been demonstrated by thick collagen fibers in the alveolar bone and in the
gingival connective tissue. It can be differentiated from the thinner collagen
type III fibers, which are localized in the gingiva (especially under the
basement membrane of the epithelium) as well as only in the bone marrow stroma.
The epithelium, blood vessels and nerves contain the characteristic collagen type
IV in their basement membrane Filamentous (collagen type V) and microfibrillar
(collagen type VI) components demonstrate different patterns of distribution,
especially around the bone cells and in contrast to the other collagen types of
fibrillar networks in the gingival CT. This morphological differentiation of the 
extracellular matrix components of the periodontium allows conclusions in the
pathological and inflammatory processes as well as in the regenerative and
reparative procedures.


PMID: 2100682  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4346. Fundam Appl Toxicol. 1990 Nov;15(4):800-13.

Evaluation of the toxicity of indomethacin in a 4-week study, by oral route, in
the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Oberto G(1), Conz A, Giachetti C, Galli CL.

Author information: 
(1)Istituto di Richerche Biomediche, Antoine Marxer, RBM-Ivrea (TO), Italy.

A subacute toxicity study of Indomethacin administered by oral route, was carried
out in the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). Groups of three males and three females
received Indomethacin directly into the stomach by means of a catheter for a
period of 4 weeks at the dose levels of 0, 2, 6, and 12 mg/kg body wt/day and
then were euthanized for pathological evaluation. All marmosets given 12
mg/kg/day and one marmoset given 6 mg/kg/day died during the dosing period
(within 20 days). At 12 mg/kg/day, Indomethacin induced severe gastrointestinal
toxicity (hemorrhage, ulcers, and necrosis with peritonitis), while at the
dosages of 6 and 2 mg/kg/day some moderate to slight dose-related functional and 
morphological renal alterations (increase of serum urea, reduction of serum
albumin, increase of serum potassium and/or chloride, and subacute inflammation) 
were observed. The fact that in many respects these alterations are similar to
those observed in man is a further demonstration of the validity of the marmoset 
as an experimental model.

DOI: 10.1016/0272-0590(90)90196-q 
PMID: 2086319  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

