

435. Nat Rev Neurosci. 2019 Oct;20(10):593-608. doi: 10.1038/s41583-019-0212-7. Epub
2019 Sep 6.

The brain's default network: updated anatomy, physiology and evolving insights.

Buckner RL(1)(2)(3)(4), DiNicola LM(5)(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA, USA.
randy_buckner@harvard.edu.
(2)Center for Brain Science, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA, USA.
randy_buckner@harvard.edu.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA, USA.
randy_buckner@harvard.edu.
(4)Athinoula A. Martinos Center for Biomedical Imaging, Massachusetts General
Hospital, Boston, MA, USA. randy_buckner@harvard.edu.
(5)Department of Psychology, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA, USA.
(6)Center for Brain Science, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA, USA.

Discoveries over the past two decades demonstrate that regions distributed
throughout the association cortex, often called the default network, are
suppressed during tasks that demand external attention and are active during
remembering, envisioning the future and making social inferences. This Review
describes progress in understanding the organization and function of networks
embedded within these association regions. Detailed high-resolution analyses of
single individuals suggest that the default network is not a single network, as
historically described, but instead comprises multiple interwoven networks. The
multiple networks share a common organizational motif (also evident in marmoset
and macaque anatomical circuits) that might support a general class of processing
function dependent on internally constructed rather than externally constrained
representations, with each separate interwoven network specialized for a distinct
processing domain. Direct neuronal recordings in humans and monkeys reveal
evidence for competitive relationships between the internally and externally
oriented networks. Findings from rodent studies suggest that the thalamus might
be essential to controlling which networks are engaged through specialized
thalamic reticular neurons, including antagonistic subpopulations. These
association networks (and presumably thalamocortical circuits) are expanded in
humans and might be particularly vulnerable to dysregulation implicated in
mental illness.

DOI: 10.1038/s41583-019-0212-7 
PMID: 31492945  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


436. Physiol Behav. 2019 Nov 1;211:112672. doi: 10.1016/j.physbeh.2019.112672. Epub
2019 Sep 2.

The use of infrared thermography to investigate emotions in common marmosets.

Ermatinger FA(1), Brügger RK(2), Burkart JM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anthropology, University of Zurich, Winterthurerstrasse 190,
8057 Zurich, Switzerland.
(2)Department of Anthropology, University of Zurich, Winterthurerstrasse 190,
8057 Zurich, Switzerland. Electronic address: rahelkatharina.bruegger@uzh.ch.

Measuring body surface temperature changes with infrared thermography has
recently been put forward as a non-invasive alternative measure of physiological 
correlates of emotional reactions. In particular, the nasal region seems to be
highly sensitive to emotional reactions. Several studies suggest that nasal
temperature is negatively correlated with the level of arousal in humans and
other primates, but some studies provide inconsistent results. Our goal was to
establish the use of infrared thermography to quantify emotional reactions in
common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus), with a focus on the nasal region. To do so
we exposed 17 common marmosets to a set of positive, negative and control stimuli
(positive: preferred food, playback of food calls; negative: playback of
aggressive vocalizations, teasing; control: no stimulus). We compared nasal
temperature before and after the stimuli and expected that highly aroused
emotional states would lead to a drop in nasal temperature. To validate the
thermography measure, we coded piloerection of the tail as an independent measure
of arousal and expected a negative correlation between the two measures. Finally,
we coded physical activity to exclude its potential confounding impact on nasal
temperature. Our results show that all predictions were met: the animals showed a
strong decrease in nasal temperature after the presentation of negative arousing 
stimuli (teasing, playback of aggressive vocalizations). Furthermore, these
changes in nasal temperature were correlated with piloerection of the tail and
could not be explained by changes in physical activity. In the positive and the
control conditions, we found systematic sex differences: in males, the preferred 
food, the playbacks of food calls, as well as the control stimulus led to an
increase in nasal temperature, whereas in females the temperature remained stable
(preferred food, control) or decreased (playback of food calls). Based on
naturalistic observations that document higher food motivation and competition
among female marmosets, as well as stronger reactions to separation from group
members in male marmosets, these sex differences corroborate a negative
correlation between arousal and nasal temperature. Overall, our results support
that measuring nasal temperature by infrared thermography is a promising method
to quantify emotional arousal in common marmosets in a fully non-invasive and
highly objective way.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.physbeh.2019.112672 
PMID: 31487492  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

