

4354. Okajimas Folia Anat Jpn. 1990 Aug;67(2-3):97-109.

The facial artery of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Takeda Y(1), Okuda H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, Osaka Dental University, Japan.

The facial artery and its ramifications in 7 adult common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus) were studied by the plastic injection method. The findings obtained are 
discussed in comparison with those for other primates. In the submandibular
region, the facial artery arose from the external carotid artery at the height of
the atlas via the linguofacial trunk on 10 of the total of 14 sides examined and 
independently on the other 4 sides. This common trunk always gave rise to the
superior thyroid artery. The facial artery passed anterolaterally between the
styloglossus muscle and the intermediate tendon of the digastricus muscle, giving
off the styloglossal and the submandibular glandular branches, and
anteroinferiorly medial to the pterygoideus medialis muscle. In a position
anterior to this muscle, the submental artery and masseteric branch were derived.
The submental artery gave off the medial pterygoid, the digastric, the cutaneous,
the sublingual glandular and the mylohyoid branches, and then continued up to the
median line, where it terminated to supply the genioglossus muscle. In the facial
region, the facial artery passed anterosuperiorly along the anterior margin of
the masseter muscle on 12 sides and away from it forwards on 2 sides, giving off 
the premasseteric branch in one of these 2 sides. It gave rise to the cutaneous, 
the buccal and the buccinator branches, the inferior labial artery and the
communicating branch with the zygomatic artery. It terminated to divide into the 
superior labial and the naris lateral arteries, although the latter was lacking
on 4 sides. The inferior labial artery gave off the mandibular marginal, the
inferior labial marginal and the inferior labial glandular branches and
terminated to anastomose with the mental artery. The superior labial artery
divided into the superficial and deep branches, each of which continued as a
nasal septal branch. The facial artery of the common marmoset usually ascended
along the anterior margin of the masseter muscle and did not reach the medial
angle of the eye.

DOI: 10.2535/ofaj1936.67.2-3_97 
PMID: 2216318  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4355. J Pharmacol Methods. 1990 Aug;24(1):9-18.

Screening procedure for assessment of ototoxicity in the common marmoset.

Kuzel RA(1), Smith JM, Trennery PN.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Pathology and Toxicology, Glaxo Group Research Ltd., Ware,
Hertfordshire, United Kingdom.

Detection of drug-induced ototoxicity in safety evaluation studies of novel
chemical entities is rarely attempted. Where such examinations are included, they
usually rely on reflex testing. The Brainstem Auditory Evoked Response can be
measured with the use of externally positioned electrodes, and it monitors
electrophysiologic responses to sound from the cochlear nerve and associated
structures of the 8th cranial nerve. These responses have been reproducibly
measured in sedated marmosets and the method shown to be a sensitive detector of 
hearing loss caused by loop diuretics or aminoglycoside antibiotics.
additionally, where hearing damage is reversible, recovery can also be monitored.
It is proposed that where a sensitive marker for ototoxicity is considered
necessary as part of a multifaceted study investigating in vivo drug safety, this
procedure may prove advantageous over existing methods.

DOI: 10.1016/0160-5402(90)90045-m 
PMID: 2214803  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

