

4358. Arteriosclerosis. 1990 Jul-Aug;10(4):633-47.

Isolation and characterization of plasma lipoproteins of common marmoset monkey. 
Comparison of effects of control and atherogenic diets.

Crook D(1), Weisgraber KH, Boyles JK, Mahley RW.

Author information: 
(1)Gladstone Foundation Laboratoreis for Cardiovascular Disease, Department of
Pathology, University of California, San Francisco 94140.

This study examines the potential of the common marmoset monkey (Callithrix
jacchus) to serve as a model for human lipoprotein metabolism and
atherosclerosis. The lipoproteins of animals fed a low-fat, low-cholesterol diet 
and a high-fat (12% wt/wt lard), high-cholesterol (0.34% wt/wt) diet were
characterized by the combination of sequential ultracentrifugation and Pevikon
block electrophoresis. Based on chemical and physical properties, equivalents of 
human very low density lipoproteins (VLDL), low density lipoproteins (LDL), and
high density lipoproteins (HDL), including and HDL-with apolipoprotein E
subclass, were demonstrated. In control animals, whose plasma cholesterol
concentration was 140.1 +/- 20.2 mg/dl (means +/- SD), approximately 40% of the
plasma cholesterol was transported by LDL as compared with approximately 70% in
humans. The cholesterol-fed marmosets segregated into two groups: hypo- and
hyper-responders. The hyper-responders had plasma cholesterol levels of 450 to
970 mg/ml. The hypercholesterolemia was associated with elevated concentrations
of VLDL, intermediate density lipoproteins, and LDL; in addition, these
lipoproteins were enriched in cholesteryl esters relative to lipoproteins
isolated from control animals. The HDL (d greater than 1.09 g/ml) levels did not 
change in response to cholesterol feeding, although the HDL-with apolipoprotein E
found in the d = 1.02 to 1.09 g/ml fraction increased approximately fivefold.
Based on immunological characteristics and sialic acid content, the common
marmoset appeared to lack a lipoprotein(a) equivalent. The results of a
short-term feeding study (11 months) suggest that this monkey was susceptible to 
the development of diet-induced atherosclerosis. The hyper-responsive animals
developed foam cell lesions and moderately proliferative intimal lesions,
predominantly within the thoracic aorta. In summary, the results of our studies
indicate that the common marmoset monkey potentially is a useful model for the
study of both lipoprotein metabolism and diet-induced atherosclerosis.

DOI: 10.1161/01.atv.10.4.633 
PMID: 2114868  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4359. Arteriosclerosis. 1990 Jul-Aug;10(4):625-32.

Isolation and characterization of several plasma apolipoproteins of common
marmoset monkey.

Crook D(1), Weisgraber KH, Rall SC Jr, Mahley RW.

Author information: 
(1)Gladstone Foundation Laboratories for Cardiovascular Disease, Department of
Pathology, University of California, San Francisco 94140.

To explore the potential of the common marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus) as a 
model for human plasma lipoprotein metabolism, several marmoset apolipoproteins
were isolated and characterized in this study. Based on several properties,
including molecular weight, amino acid composition, and sequence, the marmoset
apolipoproteins are strikingly similar to human apolipoprotein (apo) A-I, A-II,
C-III, and A-IV. The first 54 residues of marmoset apo A-I showed 87% sequence
identity with the corresponding region of human apo A-I. Amino-terminal sequence 
analysis of a minor basic apo A-I isoform revealed that it contained an
amino-terminal hexapeptide extension (Arg-His-Phe-Gln-Gln-) identical to that
found in human proapo A-I. Like apo A-II in most nonhuman primates, marmoset
apo-A-II differed from human apo A-II in that it did not contain cysteine and
therefore existed as a monomer. The complete amino acid sequence of marmoset apo 
A-II was deduced. The protein contains 77 amino acids, as does human apo A-II,
and showed an 82% identity with its human equivalent. In both species, apo C-III 
and E had similar amino-terminal sequences and amino acid compositions. Like
human apo E, marmoset apo E contained minor sialylated isoforms. However, unlike 
human apo C-III, no sialyated isoforms of marmoset apo C-III were observed. In
addition, the marmoset possessed an apolipoprotein whose molecular weight and
amino acid composition were similar to those of human apo A-IV. The close
structural similarities between corresponding marmoset and human apolipoproteins 
indicate that the marmoset monkey will be useful as a model for human lipoprotein
metabolism.

DOI: 10.1161/01.atv.10.4.625 
PMID: 2114867  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

