

4361. J Immunol. 1990 May 15;144(10):3726-35.

Genetically distinct cell populations in naturally occurring bone marrow-chimeric
primates express similar MHC class I gene products.

Watkins DI(1), Chen ZW, Hughes AL, Hodi FS, Letvin NL.

Author information: 
(1)Harvard Medical School, New England Regional Primate Research Center,
Southborough, MA 01772.

The cotton-top tamarin (Saguinus oedipus) is a naturally occurring "A" +
"B"----"A" bone marrow-chimeric species. These primates usually are born as
dizygotic twins and, due to placental vascular anastomoses, develop sharing each 
others' bone marrow elements. Strikingly, almost 50% of the PBL of a member of a 
twin pair are derived from the hematopoietic stem cells of its cotwin. To clarify
the mechanisms underlying the maintenance of tolerance in these stable chimeras, 
MHC gene products have been biochemically characterized in cloned, genetically
distinct, male and female lymphocytes from two male/female cotton-top tamarin
twin pairs. Extensive MHC class II sharing between the genetically distinct cell 
populations was not seen in the two twin pairs. This was consistent with the MHC 
class II polymorphism seen in the species. However, the MHC class I gene products
expressed by one member of a twin pair were almost identical to those expressed
by its cotwin. A human minisatellite probe demonstrated restriction fragment
length polymorphism in DNA from these animals, indicating extensive polymorphism.
Thus, MHC class I sharing did not occur due to inbreeding in these animals.
Additionally, another bone marrow-chimeric primate species, the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus), expresses MHC class I molecules with low levels of
variation. These studies suggest that the stable chimerism of bone
marrow-chimeric primates may be facilitated by MHC class I similarity between the
genetically distinct bone marrow derived-cell populations in their circulation.


PMID: 2110210  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4362. J Endocrinol. 1990 May;125(2):233-9.

Pituitary-testicular function is suppressed by an LHRH antagonist but not by an
LHRH agonist in the marmoset monkey.

Lunn SF(1), Dixson AF, Sandow J, Fraser HM.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Reproductive Biology Unit, Centre for Reproductive Biology, Edinburgh.

The use of pituitary desensitization by an LHRH agonist (buserelin) to examine
pituitary-testicular function was investigated in a New World primate. Six adult 
male marmoset monkeys were injected s.c. with an LHRH agonist implant (1.5 mg in 
a rod 0.5 cm long). Pharmacokinetics, determined by radioimmunoassay of urinary
buserelin, revealed a rapid initial release of the agonist followed by a steady
decline during a 200-day period. The LHRH agonist treatment resulted in a rapid
initial rise in plasma LH followed by a return to mean values similar to those
seen in the control samples by 7 days after implantation. Using the present
protocol, no evidence of subsequent pituitary desensitization or suppression of
testicular function was observed, plasma concentrations of LH and testosterone
remaining within the normal range during the 200-day study period. In contrast,
pituitary-testicular function was suppressed in the male marmoset after blockade 
of pituitary LHRH receptors by an LHRH antagonist. Five adults were treated with 
a single s.c. injection of the antagonist
[Ac-D-Nal(2)1,D-pCl-Phe2,D-Trp3,D-Ser(Rha)6,AzGlyNH2(10)]-LHRH at a dose of 300
micrograms/kg. The LHRH antagonist induced a marked suppression of plasma LH and 
testosterone by 6-8 h, the low levels being maintained for 24-48 h. These results
show that, whereas treatment with an LHRH antagonist can inhibit
pituitary-testicular function in the male marmoset, it may be that
desensitization cannot be induced by the LHRH agonist used.

DOI: 10.1677/joe.0.1250233 
PMID: 2165119  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

