

4364. Vet Rec. 1990 Apr 28;126(17):429-31.

Plasma vitamins A and E and hydrogen peroxide-induced in vitro erythrocyte
haemolysis in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Ghebremeskel K(1), Williams G, Harbige L, Spadetta M, Summers P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Nutritional Biochemistry, Institute of Zoology, London.

Plasma total lipid, cholesterol, all-trans retinol (vitamin A) and
alpha-tocopherol (vitamin E) concentrations, and the susceptibility of
erythrocytes to hydrogen peroxide-induced haemolysis in vitro were investigated
in healthy laboratory-bred common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). The
concentrations of alpha-tocopherol and total cholesterol were similar to those of
control human subjects. The mean lipid concentration was higher (P less than
0.025) and the retinol concentration lower (P less than 0.001) in the marmosets. 
The susceptibility of the erythrocytes of the marmosets to hydrogen
peroxide-induced haemolysis was high, both in absolute value and relative to the 
controls. Changes in phospholipid and fatty acid composition might have rendered 
the red cells susceptible to oxidative stress.


PMID: 2111954  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4365. Int J Cancer. 1990 Apr 15;45(4):763-72.

Establishment of immortalized primate epithelial cells with sub-genomic EBV DNA.

Karran L(1), Teo CG, King D, Hitt MM, Gao YN, Wedderburn N, Griffin BE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Virology, Royal Postgraduate Medical School, Hammersmith
Hospital, London, UK.

The genetic information in a sub-fragment of EBV DNA, designated p31 (containing 
less than a quarter of the viral genome and derived from a recombinant DNA cosmid
library) allows epithelial cells from primary monkey and human kidney cultures to
escape senescence under standard tissue culture conditions. A number of
epithelial cell lines, designated M1/31, 483/31, 199/31 and HK/31, have been
established and characterized following transfection of primary cells with p31
DNA. They share many properties, although morphologically they are not all
identical. The cultures are immortalized but not fully transformed or
tumorigenic. They appear to be phenotypically stable, although DNA hybridization 
studies indicate that genotypic alterations, including amplification, occur
subsequent to transfection with p31 DNA and the establishment of a continuously
proliferating epithelium. All cell lines consistently express high levels of
cytokeratin 18 and varying amounts of cytokeratin 7, demonstrating their
epithelial origin. From a single marmoset kidney (designated 199) a series of
related immortalized cells, with subtle phenotypic differences, have been
generated by p31 or sub-fragments of it. Although hallmarks of a "hit-and-run"
mechanism are apparent in all of our studies, 2 different techniques (in situ
hybridization or selection for cell survival in semi-solid media, followed by
nucleic acid hybridization) show that, in late-passaged cultures, a small
proportion of the cells still contain some viral DNA. The studies focus on
genetic information within the BamHI A and I regions as being relevant to
immortalization. The role of the EBV DNA fragment in the genesis of epithelial
cell lines is considered.

DOI: 10.1002/ijc.2910450432 
PMID: 2157679  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

