

4369. Immunology. 1990 Apr;69(4):616-21.

Immunoregulation in the common marmoset, Calithrix jaccus: functional properties 
of T and B lymphocytes and their response to human interleukins 2 and 4.

Quint DJ(1), Buckham SP, Bolton EJ, Solari R, Champion BR, Zanders ED.

Author information: 
(1)Biochemistry Department, Glaxo Group Research Ltd, Greenford, Middlesex, U.K.

Non-human primates have been used to study immune function to a much lesser
extent than readily available strains of inbred rodents. Nevertheless, in
situations where it might be desirable, but impossible, to study human immune
responses in vivo, lower primates could provide an acceptable alternative. In
order to extent the knowledge of T- and B-lymphocyte function in lower primates, 
the common marmoset Callithrix jaccus was used as an experimental model. The
functional similarities between this species and humans at the level of T-B
co-operation in the antibody response were examined, and xenoreactive
T-lymphocyte clones were obtained from marmoset spleen cells using Epstein-Barr
virus (EBV)-transformed human B cells as stimulators. These clones could act as
helper cells when co-cultured with human B lymphocytes, inducing the secretion of
both IgM and IgG. Lymphokine production by mitogen-stimulated marmoset T-cell
clones was also examined. Interleukins (IL) 2 and 4 activities were detected in
clone supernatants using bioassays and interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) was detected 
using a solid-phase ELISA system. However, SDS-PAGE analysis of biosynthetically 
labelled marmoset and human T-cell clone supernatant proteins revealed major
differences between the soluble T-cell products of the two species. The
proliferative responses of marmoset T and B cells to recombinant human IL-2 and
IL-4 were also examined. Stimulation of [3H]thymidine uptake was detected in both
T cell- and anti-IgM-stimulated B-cell cultures with both of the lymphokines.
These results suggests that the key components of the antibody response are
functionally conserved between lower primates and man and that the common
marmoset may be useful as an in vivo model of immune function, particularly with 
regard to the role of interleukins such as IL-2 and IL-4.


PMCID: PMC1385638
PMID: 2110549  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4370. J Immunol Methods. 1990 Mar 9;127(2):187-95.

Monoclonal antibodies from Epstein-Barr virus-transformed lymphocytes of common
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) immune to malaria.

Johnston DA(1), Knight AM, Naylor BA, Wedderburn N, Mitchell GH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, United Medical Hospital, London, U.K.

The B lymphocytes of the common marmoset Callithrix jacchus can be immortalized
by infection with Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) in vitro (Desgranges et al., 1976). C.
jacchus is susceptible to infection with the blood stages of several species of
malaria parasite including the line designated MVF1 (Mitchell et al., 1988) from 
which it recovers and shows immunity to reinfection. By exploiting these two
phenomena, EBV-transformed, marmoset lymphoblastoid cell lines secreting
antibodies to malaria parasite antigens have been generated and cloned. We
believe this to be the first time that monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) have been
raised from common marmosets. Since numerous and diverse human pathogens can
infect this small primate in the laboratory, these methods may prove generally
applicable for the generation of MAbs whose specificities derive from immune
responses to infection.

DOI: 10.1016/0022-1759(90)90068-7 
PMCID: PMC7130502
PMID: 2155967  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

