

437. J Med Primatol. 2020 Feb;49(1):10-15. doi: 10.1111/jmp.12439. Epub 2019 Sep 4.

Values of plasma total proteins of free-living marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) in 
an urban forest.

de Albuquerque JR(1), da Silva FDG(1), Rocha PIA(1), Souza DDSE(1), de Oliveira
MAB(1), Cadena PG(1), Soares AF(1).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Morfologia e Fisiologia Animal, Universidade Federal Rural de 
Pernambuco, Recife, Pernambuco, Brazil.

BACKGROUND: Callithrix jacchus is a small primate widely used in experimentation,
but data on plasma total protein (PTP) values of free-living animals inhabiting
its own endemism region are non-existent.
METHODS: Marmosets belonging to two free-living groups were captured for marking 
and obtaining biological material. The collected blood was centrifuged to obtain 
the plasma and thus to determine the concentration of PTP.
RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS: Females and adults had the highest mean PTP. Mean found 
were higher than other values described for other neotropical primates, and the
high PTP values presented by the animals indicate dehydration. Due to the
importance of total plasma proteins for health and management, obtaining these
values as a reference is relevant for the free-living Callithrix genus and other 
neotropical primates.

© 2019 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jmp.12439 
PMID: 31486090  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


438. J Neurophysiol. 2019 Oct 1;122(4):1765-1776. doi: 10.1152/jn.00417.2019. Epub
2019 Sep 4.

Electrical microstimulation evokes saccades in posterior parietal cortex of
common marmosets.

Ghahremani M(1)(2), Johnston KD(1)(3)(4), Ma L(2), Hayrynen LK(2), Everling
S(1)(3)(4)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Graduate Program in Neuroscience, The University of Western Ontario, London,
Ontario, Canada.
(2)Robarts Research Institute, The University of Western Ontario, London,
Ontario, Canada.
(3)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, The University of Western Ontario, 
London, Ontario, Canada.
(4)Brain and Mind Institute, The University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, 
Canada.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is a small-bodied New World primate
increasing in prominence as a model animal for neuroscience research. The
lissencephalic cortex of this primate species provides substantial advantages for
the application of electrophysiological techniques such as high-density and
laminar recordings, which have the capacity to advance our understanding of local
and laminar cortical circuits and their roles in cognitive and motor functions.
This is particularly the case with respect to the oculomotor system, as critical 
cortical areas of this network such as the frontal eye fields (FEF) and lateral
intraparietal area (LIP) lie deep within sulci in macaques. Studies of
cytoarchitecture and connectivity have established putative homologies between
cortical oculomotor fields in marmoset and macaque, but physiological
investigations of these areas, particularly in awake marmosets, have yet to be
carried out. Here we addressed this gap by probing the function of posterior
parietal cortex of the common marmoset with electrical microstimulation. We
implanted two animals with 32-channel Utah arrays at the location of the putative
area LIP and applied microstimulation while they viewed a video display and made 
untrained eye movements. Similar to previous studies in macaques, stimulation
evoked fixed-vector and goal-directed saccades, staircase saccades, and
eyeblinks. These data demonstrate that area LIP of the marmoset plays a role in
the regulation of eye movements, provide additional evidence that this area is
homologous with that of the macaque, and further establish the marmoset as a
valuable model for neurophysiological investigations of oculomotor and cognitive 
control.NEW & NOTEWORTHY The macaque monkey has been the preeminent model for
investigations of oculomotor control, but studies of cortical areas are limited, 
as many of these areas are buried within sulci in this species. Here we applied
electrical microstimulation to the putative area LIP of the lissencephalic cortex
of awake marmosets. Similar to the macaque, microstimulation evoked contralateral
saccades from this area, supporting the marmoset as a valuable model for studies 
of oculomotor control.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00417.2019 
PMID: 31483706  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

