

4375. J Comp Neurol. 1990 Jan 15;291(3):468-89.

Morphology of neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive neurons in the cat olfactory bulb and
olfactory peduncle: postnatal development and species comparison.

Sanides-Kohlrausch C(1), Wahle P.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck Institut für Biophysikalische Chemie, Abt. Neurobiologie,
Göttingen, Federal Republic of Germany.

The distribution and morphology of Neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive (NPY-ir) neurons
in the olfactory bulb and the olfactory peduncle was studied in the adult cat and
rat, and the common marmoset Callithrix jacchus. Significant species differences 
were not observed. In all three species, the population of NPY-ir neurons is
localized in the white matter extending from the main olfactory bulb to the
border of the striatum. The neurons are characterized by a conspicuously looping 
axonal ramification pattern with some major collaterals running toward the
olfactory bulb and others running toward the internal olfactory tract. The
former, ipsilateral projection terminates in the granule cell layer of the main
and accessory olfactory bulb and in layer II/III of the anterior olfactory
nucleus. Reconstruction of the latter projection has revealed that the fibers are
continuous with the olfactory limb of the anterior commissure and the anterior
commissure proper suggesting a commissural contralateral projection. The analysis
of the postnatal development of the cat NPY neuron system supports this
assumption in a very clear-cut way. In young animals growing fibers are observed 
to cross the brachium of the commissure. The NPY neuron system develops
postnatally. The maximum cell number is reached during the third postnatal week. 
The appearance of more and more NPY-ir neurons slightly precedes the formation of
the terminal fields and of the fiber projection in the internal olfactory tract. 
The density of this early fiber projection by far exceeds the fiber density
observed in the adult. Later in development the fiber density in the olfactory
limb and the anterior commissure becomes considerably reduced. In contrast, the
plexus density in the anterior olfactory nucleus and the granule cell layer of
the main and accessory olfactory bulb undergoes only a slight reduction, and the 
NPY-ir cell number remains roughly constant. These observations suggest that the 
ipsilateral NPY-ir projection remains largely unchanged, in contrast to the
contralateral projection, which exists to a large extent only for the first four 
postnatal months. The observation that the NPY neuron system gives rise to a
contralateral projection does not support a classification of NPY neurons as
short axon cells.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.902910312 
PMID: 2298945  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4376. Arch Toxicol. 1990;64(5):345-59.

Polyhalogenated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans and the immune system. 1.
Effects on peripheral lymphocyte subpopulations of a non-human primate
(Callithrix jacchus) after treatment with 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin
(TCDD).

Neubert R(1), Jacob-Müller U, Stahlmann R, Helge H, Neubert D.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Toxikologie und Embryopharmakologie, Freie Universität Berlin.

Monoclonal antibodies were used to analyse the effects of
2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) on peripheral lymphocytes from
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) following injections of single low doses of TCDD. 
A reduction of the percentage and the total number of lymphocytes among the white
blood cells was seen 3 weeks after a single administration of 300 ng TCDD/kg body
wt, but not following 167 ng TCDD/kg or less. After treatment of marmosets with
the single subcutaneous dose of 10 ng TCDD/kg body wt. we observed an average
decrease of about 20% in the percentage of CD4+ cells in the venous blood of
treated animals. This change was not seen at the time of maximum absorption (2
weeks after the injection), but was demonstrable after 4 weeks and reached its
maximum 15 weeks after the injection. The time course of the changes suggests an 
indirect effect (possibly via the thymus). Due to the considerable inter- and
intra-individual variability in the number of peripheral lymphocytes the effect
was less convincing on the basis of the total CD4+ cells per microliter blood.
There was a significant concomitant increase in the percentage of cells with the 
CD8+ marker. A closer analysis of the lymphocyte subpopulation involved revealed 
a predominant effect on the cells with the CD4CDw29 ("leu 3a+4B4+") surface
marker ("helper-inducer cells"). Subsequent to a dose of 10 ng TCDD/kg body wt
the percentage of these cells was reduced by 50% or more when compared with the
(24) controls. On an absolute basis (number of cell/microliter blood) these
CD4+CDw29+ cells were clearly reduced in only two out of four marmosets. There
was no significant effect on the percentage of the CD4+CD45R+ ("leu3a+2H4+")
subpopulation ("suppressor-inducer cells"). The ratios: CD4+CDw29+/CD4+CD45R+, or
CD4+CDw29+/CD8+ appear to be convenient measures for monitoring the effect
described. Since the difference between the percentage of CD2+ cells minus the
sum of CD4+ plus CD8+ cells was found to be increased following rather high doses
(167 ng TCDD/kg body wt or more), this suggests that immature cells (CD2+
CD4-CD8-) are released into the periphery as a result of the exposure to TCDD.
Furthermore, a decrease in the percentage of CD20+ (B1+) cells (about 50% when
compared with controls) was observed in the treated animals following a single
dose of 10 ng TCDD/kg body wt or higher. Subsequent to a dose of 10 ng TCDD/kg
body wt the percentage of CD56+ (NKH1+) cells seemed to be slightly increased.
The dose-response for the effects observed was rather poor.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT
400 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1007/BF01973455 
PMID: 2403285  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

