

4376. Arch Toxicol. 1990;64(5):345-59.

Polyhalogenated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans and the immune system. 1.
Effects on peripheral lymphocyte subpopulations of a non-human primate
(Callithrix jacchus) after treatment with 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin
(TCDD).

Neubert R(1), Jacob-Müller U, Stahlmann R, Helge H, Neubert D.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Toxikologie und Embryopharmakologie, Freie Universität Berlin.

Monoclonal antibodies were used to analyse the effects of
2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) on peripheral lymphocytes from
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) following injections of single low doses of TCDD. 
A reduction of the percentage and the total number of lymphocytes among the white
blood cells was seen 3 weeks after a single administration of 300 ng TCDD/kg body
wt, but not following 167 ng TCDD/kg or less. After treatment of marmosets with
the single subcutaneous dose of 10 ng TCDD/kg body wt. we observed an average
decrease of about 20% in the percentage of CD4+ cells in the venous blood of
treated animals. This change was not seen at the time of maximum absorption (2
weeks after the injection), but was demonstrable after 4 weeks and reached its
maximum 15 weeks after the injection. The time course of the changes suggests an 
indirect effect (possibly via the thymus). Due to the considerable inter- and
intra-individual variability in the number of peripheral lymphocytes the effect
was less convincing on the basis of the total CD4+ cells per microliter blood.
There was a significant concomitant increase in the percentage of cells with the 
CD8+ marker. A closer analysis of the lymphocyte subpopulation involved revealed 
a predominant effect on the cells with the CD4CDw29 ("leu 3a+4B4+") surface
marker ("helper-inducer cells"). Subsequent to a dose of 10 ng TCDD/kg body wt
the percentage of these cells was reduced by 50% or more when compared with the
(24) controls. On an absolute basis (number of cell/microliter blood) these
CD4+CDw29+ cells were clearly reduced in only two out of four marmosets. There
was no significant effect on the percentage of the CD4+CD45R+ ("leu3a+2H4+")
subpopulation ("suppressor-inducer cells"). The ratios: CD4+CDw29+/CD4+CD45R+, or
CD4+CDw29+/CD8+ appear to be convenient measures for monitoring the effect
described. Since the difference between the percentage of CD2+ cells minus the
sum of CD4+ plus CD8+ cells was found to be increased following rather high doses
(167 ng TCDD/kg body wt or more), this suggests that immature cells (CD2+
CD4-CD8-) are released into the periphery as a result of the exposure to TCDD.
Furthermore, a decrease in the percentage of CD20+ (B1+) cells (about 50% when
compared with controls) was observed in the treated animals following a single
dose of 10 ng TCDD/kg body wt or higher. Subsequent to a dose of 10 ng TCDD/kg
body wt the percentage of CD56+ (NKH1+) cells seemed to be slightly increased.
The dose-response for the effects observed was rather poor.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT
400 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1007/BF01973455 
PMID: 2403285  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4377. Exp Brain Res. 1990;81(1):1-17.

The topology of the thalamo-cortical projections in the marmoset monkey
(Callithrix jacchus).

Brysch W(1), Brysch I, Creutzfeldt OD, Schlingensiepen R, Schlingensiepen KH.

Author information: 
(1)Abteilung Neurobiologie, Max-Planck-Institut für Biophysikalische Chemie,
Göttingen, Federal Republic of Germany.

This paper addresses the question of a general topological principle of
thalamo-cortical projections. In the lissencephalic primate brain of the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), large injections of horseradish peroxidase were
made in various parts of the neocortex. These injections were placed in different
animals and hemispheres along various caudo-rostral and medio-lateral gradients. 
Labelled cells in the thalamus were plotted and the labelling-zones resulting
from several injections along a medio-lateral and two caudo-rostral cortical
vectors were drawn into semi-schematic thalamic maps. These composite maps reveal
a topological organization of the whole thalamo-cortical projection. The thalamic
representation of the caudo-rostral and medio-lateral gradients indicate a
rotation of the posterior relative to the anterior thalamus. An attempt is made
to relate the organization of the thalamo-cortical projection to the development 
of the thalamus and the cortex. The cortex is divided into concentric zones
around the sensory-motor and insular cortex. The thalamus is divided into
corresponding projection zones. The topology of thalamo-cortical connections can 
then be regarded as a consequence of corresponding thalamic and cortical growth
gradients. This is not only consistent with the general thalamo-cortical topology
and the inversion of maps from thalamus to cortex, but also explains the
continuity and overlap of thalamic projection zones in the pulvinar to widely
separated cortical areas as the parietal, temporal and frontal association
cortex.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00230095 
PMID: 2394218  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

