

4379. Anat Embryol (Berl). 1990;181(1):59-66.

An ultrastructural study of early chorionic villus formation in the marmoset
monkey (Callithrix jacchus).

Smith CA(1), Moore HD.

Author information: 
(1)MRC/AFRC Comparative Physiology Research Group, Zoological Society of London, 
Regent's Park, UK.

The ultrastructural morphology of developing chorionic villi in the marmoset
monkey (Callithrix jacchus) placenta was studied in pregnant monkeys at known
time intervals after ovulation. In samples obtained at 45 days after ovulation
the mesoderm, which consists of primitive foetal blood vessels, is seen to extend
down into cytotrophoblast columns. Syncytiotrophoblast completely surrounds
maternal blood vessels and both basal laminae and endothelial cells of maternal
origin show signs of disorganisation and degradation. Syncytiotrophoblast is
first observed to breach the maternal circulation in samples collected from
animals at 60 days after ovulation; this results in discrete haemochorial villi
randomly distributed throughout the placental bed. Samples obtained at 80 days
after ovulation and term placental samples (145 days after ovulation) exhibit
tertiary haemochorial villi throughout the placenta, similar to those seen
randomly distributed at 60 days after ovulation.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00189728 
PMID: 2305971  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4380. Schweiz Monatsschr Zahnmed. 1990;100(9):1049-52.

[The distribution of different collagen types and laminin in the gingiva of the
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus)].

[Article in German]

Romanos GE(1), Schröter-Kermani C, Hinz N, Wachtel HC, Bernimoulin JP.

Author information: 
(1)Abteilung für Parodontologie, Freie Universität Berlin.

The distribution of the collagen types I, III, IV, V, VI and of the glycoprotein 
laminin have been examined in the healthy gingiva of the marmoset with the
indirect immunofluorescence method. It has been shown that collagen type I formed
thick fibrils in a wave-like pattern, while collagen type III formed thinner
fibrils, especially under the epithelial basal membrane. Collagen type IV and
laminin showed a strong fluorescence in the basal membrane (epithelium, vessels, 
nerves). Collagen type V has been demonstrated as a fine fibrillar pattern in the
lamina propria and occasionally close to the basal membrane. Collagen type VI has
been represented as a microfibrillar network in the connective tissue matrix with
a brilliant pericellular fluorescence around vessels and nerves. The study showed
the structural model of the connective tissue matrix of the marmoset gingiva and 
allows a later comparison between inflamed and healthy gingiva.


PMID: 2237364  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

