

4380. Schweiz Monatsschr Zahnmed. 1990;100(9):1049-52.

[The distribution of different collagen types and laminin in the gingiva of the
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus)].

[Article in German]

Romanos GE(1), Schröter-Kermani C, Hinz N, Wachtel HC, Bernimoulin JP.

Author information: 
(1)Abteilung für Parodontologie, Freie Universität Berlin.

The distribution of the collagen types I, III, IV, V, VI and of the glycoprotein 
laminin have been examined in the healthy gingiva of the marmoset with the
indirect immunofluorescence method. It has been shown that collagen type I formed
thick fibrils in a wave-like pattern, while collagen type III formed thinner
fibrils, especially under the epithelial basal membrane. Collagen type IV and
laminin showed a strong fluorescence in the basal membrane (epithelium, vessels, 
nerves). Collagen type V has been demonstrated as a fine fibrillar pattern in the
lamina propria and occasionally close to the basal membrane. Collagen type VI has
been represented as a microfibrillar network in the connective tissue matrix with
a brilliant pericellular fluorescence around vessels and nerves. The study showed
the structural model of the connective tissue matrix of the marmoset gingiva and 
allows a later comparison between inflamed and healthy gingiva.


PMID: 2237364  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4381. Fortschr Ophthalmol. 1990;87(1):105-9.

[Quantitative autoradiography with (125I)cyanopindolol of ocular tissues].

[Article in German]

Kahle G(1), Kaulen P, Wollensak J.

Author information: 
(1)Universitätsklinikum Rudolf Virchow, Standort Charlottenburg, Berlin.

In the present study beta-adrenergic receptors were identified and localized by
autoradiographic methods using [125I]cyanopindolol in human eyes, as well as in
the eyes of marmosets and albino rabbits. Quantification revealed that the
highest binding-site densities are in the ciliary body and the corneal epithelium
and endothelium. Moreover, the iris and conjunctiva showed significant amounts of
specific [125I]cyanopindolol binding. In pigmented human and marmoset eyes,
binding to the ciliary epithelium and iris was not inhibited by 10 microM
propranolol, thus representing nonspecific binding sites. In nonpigmented rabbit 
eyes, binding to all parts of the eye was reduced to the level of background by
10 microM propranolol and 100 nM ICI 118-551, which is a highly selective beta
2-adrenergic ligand. Being selective for serotonin1B receptors, 100 nM ICI 89-406
which blocks more than 95% of the beta 1-adrenergic receptors, and RU 24,969 have
no effect on [125I]cyanopindolol binding, which suggests that there is binding to
beta 2-adrenergic receptors. The anatomical location and quantification of beta
2-receptors in the mammalian eye may contribute to better understanding of beta
2-adrenoceptor function and the action of beta-adrenoceptor blocking agents in
glaucoma therapy.


PMID: 2157652  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

