

4395. Neuropharmacology. 1989 Nov;28(11):1223-9.

Desenkephalin-gamma-endorphin is an antagonist of the hyperactivity response
induced by infusion of dopamine into the nucleus accumbens of rat and ventral
striatum of marmoset.

Costall B(1), Domeney AM, Naylor RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Postgraduate Studies in Pharmacology, School of Pharmacy, University of
Bradford, West Yorkshire, U.K.

The ability of desenkephalin-gamma-endorphin (DE gamma E; ORG5878) to antagonise 
a raised limbic dopamine function was investigated in the rat and common
marmoset. Dopamine was infused for 13 days directly into the nucleus accumbens of
the rat and ventral striatum of the marmoset and increased locomotor activity.
Such increases in both the rat and marmoset were antagonised by the subcutaneous 
injection of DE gamma E, administered in a range 10-500 micrograms/kg (t.i.d.),
during the 13 day period of infusion of dopamine. Treatment with dopamine alone
or in combination with DE gamma E failed to influence the level of spontaneous
locomotor activity after discontinuing treatment. In contrast, in experiments
performed in the rat, the level of spontaneous locomotor activity was increased
2- to 3-fold after cessation of a regimen of infusion of dopamine and
haloperidol. The increases in activity were antagonised by DE gamma E (50 and 100
micrograms/kg t.i.d., s.c., for 2 days). In additional experiments in the
marmoset, using animals initially selected as "high activity" responders to
challenge with (-)N-n-propylnorapomorphine, the infusion of dopamine caused a
reversal in responsiveness to the stimulant effects of
(-)N-n-propylnorapomorphine on locomotor activity some 2-4 weeks after
discontinuing the infusion of dopamine. The administration of fluphenazine
(0.01-2.5 mg/kg b.d.), during the infusion of dopamine, failed to prevent the
subsequent change in responsiveness to (-)N-n-propylnorapomorphine, whereas a
regimen of dopamine and DE gamma-E (25-100 micrograms/kg t.i.d.) prevented such
changes.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1016/0028-3908(89)90215-3 
PMID: 2574424  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4396. Rinsho Ketsueki. 1989 Oct;30(10):1732-7.

[Mother to child transmission of human T cell leukemia virus type-1].

[Article in Japanese]

Ikeda S, Kinoshita K, Amagasaki T, Momita S, Soda H, Ito M, Kanda T, Tachibana K,
Doi H, Tsuji Y, et al.

Infection of HTLV-1 during childhood may be the most probable cause of
leukemogenesis of ATL. The possibility of mother to child transmission of HTLV-1 
was studied. Our epidemiological investigation disclosed that almost all mothers 
of HTLV-1 carrier children were positive for anti-HTLV-1 antibody and children
born from carrier mothers showed statistically higher positive rate for
anti-HTLV-1 antibody than control groups. A large number of HTLV-1 positive
lymphocytes were detected in the milk from carrier mother, but not in the cord
blood from newborn babies delivered from carrier mothers. We inoculated the fresh
milk collected from carrier mothers into the oral cavity of a common marmoset to 
prove the oral infection. The marmoset was found to be seroconverted and viral
antigen expression was detected in short term cultures of its peripheral T
lymphocytes. These results suggest that we can prevent the transmission of HTLV-1
by prohibiting the breast-fed [corrected] by carrier mother. We have so far
followed up 55 children born from carrier mothers but fed with compound milk
only. None of the children in this group became a carrier of HTLV-1, whereas
breast-fed group was found to have higher incidence of sero-positivity for
HTLV-1. Therefore the trial prevention of HTLV-1 transmission is now undertaken
in Nagasaki district.


PMID: 2512396  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

