

44. Neuroscience. 2022 Jan 1;480:143-154. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2021.11.009.
Epub 2021 Nov 11.

Co-registration of Imaging Modalities (MRI, CT and PET) to Perform Frameless
Stereotaxic Robotic Injections in the Common Marmoset.

Kwan C(1), Kang MS(2), Nuara SG(3), Gourdon JC(3), Bédard D(1), Tardif CL(4),
Hopewell R(5), Ross K(5), Bdair H(6), Hamadjida A(1), Massarweh G(5), Soucy
JP(7), Luo W(8), Del Cid Pellitero E(9), Shlaifer I(8), Durcan TM(8), Fon EA(9), 
Rosa-Neto P(10), Frey S(11), Huot P(12).

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Group, Montreal Neurological Institute-Hospital (The
Neuro), Montreal, QC, Canada.
(2)McGill University Research Centre for Studies in Aging, Douglas Research
Centre, Montreal, QC, Canada.
(3)Comparative Medicine & Animal Resource Centre, McGill University, Montreal,
QC, Canada.
(4)Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, McGill University, Montreal, QC,
Canada; Department of Biomedical Engineering, McGill University, Montreal, QC,
Canada; McConnell Brain Imaging Centre, Montreal Neurological Institute-Hospital 
(The Neuro), Montreal, QC, Canada.
(5)Neurodegenerative Disease Group, Montreal Neurological Institute-Hospital (The
Neuro), Montreal, QC, Canada; McConnell Brain Imaging Centre, Montreal
Neurological Institute-Hospital (The Neuro), Montreal, QC, Canada.
(6)Neurodegenerative Disease Group, Montreal Neurological Institute-Hospital (The
Neuro), Montreal, QC, Canada; Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, McGill
University, Montreal, QC, Canada; McConnell Brain Imaging Centre, Montreal
Neurological Institute-Hospital (The Neuro), Montreal, QC, Canada.
(7)McConnell Brain Imaging Centre, Montreal Neurological Institute-Hospital (The 
Neuro), Montreal, QC, Canada.
(8)Neurodegenerative Disease Group, Montreal Neurological Institute-Hospital (The
Neuro), Montreal, QC, Canada; The Neuro's Early Drug Discovery Unit, McGill
University, Montreal, QC, Canada.
(9)Neurodegenerative Disease Group, Montreal Neurological Institute-Hospital (The
Neuro), Montreal, QC, Canada; Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, McGill
University, Montreal, QC, Canada; Movement Disorder Clinic, Division of
Neurology, Department of Neuroscience, McGill University Health Centre, Montreal,
QC, Canada.
(10)McGill University Research Centre for Studies in Aging, Douglas Research
Centre, Montreal, QC, Canada; Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, McGill
University, Montreal, QC, Canada; McConnell Brain Imaging Centre, Montreal
Neurological Institute-Hospital (The Neuro), Montreal, QC, Canada.
(11)Rogue Research Inc, Montreal, QC, Canada.
(12)Neurodegenerative Disease Group, Montreal Neurological Institute-Hospital
(The Neuro), Montreal, QC, Canada; Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery,
McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada; Movement Disorder Clinic, Division of
Neurology, Department of Neuroscience, McGill University Health Centre, Montreal,
QC, Canada. Electronic address: philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.

The common marmoset has emerged as a popular model in neuroscience research, in
part due to its reproductive efficiency, genetic and neuroanatomical similarities
to humans and the successful generation of transgenic lines. Stereotaxic
procedures in marmosets are guided by 2D stereotaxic atlases, which are
constructed with a limited number of animals and fail to account for
inter-individual variability in skull and brain size. Here, we developed a
frameless imaging-guided stereotaxic system that improves upon traditional
approaches by using subject-specific registration of computed tomography (CT),
magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and positron emission tomography (PET) data to
identify a surgical target, namely the putamen, in two marmosets. The skull
surface was laser-scanned to create a point cloud that was registered to the 3D
reconstruction of the skull from CT. Reconstruction of the skull, as well as of
the brain from MR images, was crucial for surgical planning. Localisation and
injection into the putamen was done using a 6-axis robotic arm controlled by a
surgical navigation software (Brainsight™). Integration of subject-specific
registration and frameless stereotaxic navigation allowed target localisation
specific to each animal. Injection of alpha-synuclein fibrils into the putamen
triggered progressive neurodegeneration of the nigro-striatal system, a key
feature of Parkinson's disease. Four months post-surgery, a PET scan found
evidence of nigro-striatal denervation, supporting accurate targeting of the
putamen during co-registration and subsequent surgery. Our results suggest that
this approach, coupled with frameless stereotaxic neuronavigation, is accurate in
localising surgical targets and can be used to assess endpoints for longitudinal 
studies.

Copyright © 2021 IBRO. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2021.11.009 
PMID: 34774970  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


45. Exp Neurol. 2022 Jan;347:113920. doi: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2021.113920. Epub 2021 
Nov 8.

Dopamine D3 receptor ligand suppresses the expression of levodopa-induced
dyskinesia in nonhuman primate model of parkinson's disease.

Oh T(1), Daadi ES(1), Kim J(2), Daadi EW(1), Chen PJ(3), Roy-Choudhury G(1),
Bohmann J(4), Blass BE(3), Daadi MM(5).

Author information: 
(1)Southwest National Primate Research Center, Texas Biomedical Research
Institute, San Antonio, TX, USA.
(2)Southwest National Primate Research Center, Texas Biomedical Research
Institute, San Antonio, TX, USA; Cell Systems & Anatomy, University of Texas
Health at San Antonio, San Antonio, TX, USA.
(3)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Moulder Center for Drug Discovery
Research, Temple University School of Pharmacy, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(4)Southwest Research Institute, San Antonio, TX, USA.
(5)Southwest National Primate Research Center, Texas Biomedical Research
Institute, San Antonio, TX, USA; Cell Systems & Anatomy, University of Texas
Health at San Antonio, San Antonio, TX, USA; Radiology, Long School of Medicine, 
University of Texas Health at San Antonio, San Antonio, TX, USA. Electronic
address: mdaadi@txbiomed.org.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is a complex multisystem, chronic and so far incurable
disease with significant unmet medical needs. The incidence of PD increases with 
aging and the expected burden will continue to escalate with our aging
population. Since its discovery in the 1961 levodopa has remained the gold
standard pharmacotherapy for PD. However, the progressive nature of the
neurodegenerative process in and beyond the nigrostriatal system causes a
multitude of side effects, including levodopa-induced dyskinesia within 5 years
of therapy. Attenuating dyskinesia has been a significant challenge in the
clinical management of PD. We report on a small molecule that eliminates the
expression of levodopa-induced dyskinesia and significantly improves PD-like
symptoms. The lead compound PD13R we discovered is a dopamine D3 receptor partial
agonist with high affinity and selectivity, orally active and with desirable
drug-like properties. Future studies are aimed at developing this lead compound
for treating PD patients with dyskinesia.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2021.113920 
PMID: 34762921  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

