

4403. J Hypertens. 1989 Aug;7(8):615-8.

Biochemical effects of prolonged renin inhibition in marmosets.

Wood JM(1), Jobber RA, Baum HP, de Gasparo M, Nussberger J.

Author information: 
(1)Cardiovascular Research Department, Ciba-Geigy Limited, Basel, Switzerland.

The renin inhibitor CGP 29,287 was administered continuously for 7 days (30 mg/kg
per day, intraperitoneally, via osmotic minipumps) to normotensive marmosets fed 
a low-salt diet. As a control, another group of marmosets was given vehicle only.
After 7 days of treatment, the mean arterial blood pressure of the CGP
29,287-treated marmosets was significantly lowered by about 23 mmHg. Plasma
immunoreactive total and active renin were increased 10- and sevenfold,
respectively, whereas plasma renin activity (PRA) was reduced by 95%. Plasma
angiotensin II (Ang II) and aldosterone were also reduced (by 97 and 85%,
respectively). Serum angiotensin converting enzyme activity was unchanged and
there were no differences in plasma concentrations of electrolytes, urea or
creatinine between CGP 29,287-treated and control marmosets. These results
indicate that although renin release is markedly stimulated after continuous
administration of a renin inhibitor for 7 days, the formation of Ang II and
aldosterone, the active hormones of the renin-angiotensin system, is
substantially reduced.

DOI: 10.1097/00004872-198908000-00003 
PMID: 2681408  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4404. J Electron Microsc Tech. 1989 Aug;12(4):331-42.

Immunohistochemical distribution and colocalization of regulatory peptides in the
carotid body.

Heym C(1), Kummer W.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Anatomie und Zellbiologie, Universität Heidelberg, Federal
Republic of Germany.

Current investigations on the immunohistochemical occurrence and co-occurrence of
biogenic polypeptides in the mammalian carotid body were reviewed and extended by
our own recent findings. The family of chromogranins and related peptides in
glomus cells appears to have a widespread interspecies distribution, whereas
other peptides investigated occur in a species-specific pattern. Immunoreactivity
to antisera against opioids, which derive from the proenkephalin sequence,
appears to be present in glomus cells of the rabbit, cat, dog, and a shrew.
Conversely, glomus cells of pig and guinea pig predominantly are immunoreactive
to cleavage products of prodynorphin, which co-occur in some cells with substance
P and met-enkephalin-arg-phe, respectively. In the rat and Callithrix jacchus,
opioid immunoreactivity is present in nerve fibres but not in glomus cells.
Immunoreactivity to other peptides, such as neurotensin, cholecystokinin,
neuropeptide Y, and galanin, is found only in one or two particular species.
Neurotensin immunolabelling occurs in beagle dog glomus cells, which are known to
lack substance P. Cholecystokinin immunoreactivity is present in glomus cells of 
dog and Callithrix, and co-exists with chromogranin A, neuropeptide Y, and
substance P. Substance P appears to exist in both carotid body glomus cells and
nerve fibres. Substance P immunoreactivity is present in glomus cells of all
species investigated, except dog. Coexistence of substance P and calcitonin
gene-related peptide (CGRP) is demonstrated in nerve fibres of the guinea pig
carotid body, which originate in the petrosal and jugular ganglia. Other peptides
visualized immunohistochemically in mammalian carotid body nerve fibres are
vasoactive intestinal peptide and neuropeptide Y. The functional significance of 
the various peptides present in the carotid body is discussed.

DOI: 10.1002/jemt.1060120406 
PMID: 2671303  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

