

4404. J Electron Microsc Tech. 1989 Aug;12(4):331-42.

Immunohistochemical distribution and colocalization of regulatory peptides in the
carotid body.

Heym C(1), Kummer W.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Anatomie und Zellbiologie, Universität Heidelberg, Federal
Republic of Germany.

Current investigations on the immunohistochemical occurrence and co-occurrence of
biogenic polypeptides in the mammalian carotid body were reviewed and extended by
our own recent findings. The family of chromogranins and related peptides in
glomus cells appears to have a widespread interspecies distribution, whereas
other peptides investigated occur in a species-specific pattern. Immunoreactivity
to antisera against opioids, which derive from the proenkephalin sequence,
appears to be present in glomus cells of the rabbit, cat, dog, and a shrew.
Conversely, glomus cells of pig and guinea pig predominantly are immunoreactive
to cleavage products of prodynorphin, which co-occur in some cells with substance
P and met-enkephalin-arg-phe, respectively. In the rat and Callithrix jacchus,
opioid immunoreactivity is present in nerve fibres but not in glomus cells.
Immunoreactivity to other peptides, such as neurotensin, cholecystokinin,
neuropeptide Y, and galanin, is found only in one or two particular species.
Neurotensin immunolabelling occurs in beagle dog glomus cells, which are known to
lack substance P. Cholecystokinin immunoreactivity is present in glomus cells of 
dog and Callithrix, and co-exists with chromogranin A, neuropeptide Y, and
substance P. Substance P appears to exist in both carotid body glomus cells and
nerve fibres. Substance P immunoreactivity is present in glomus cells of all
species investigated, except dog. Coexistence of substance P and calcitonin
gene-related peptide (CGRP) is demonstrated in nerve fibres of the guinea pig
carotid body, which originate in the petrosal and jugular ganglia. Other peptides
visualized immunohistochemically in mammalian carotid body nerve fibres are
vasoactive intestinal peptide and neuropeptide Y. The functional significance of 
the various peptides present in the carotid body is discussed.

DOI: 10.1002/jemt.1060120406 
PMID: 2671303  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4405. Acta Paediatr Jpn. 1989 Aug;31(4):428-35.

Milk-borne transmission of HTLV-I as a major route in the endemic cycle.

Hino S.

Mother-to-child transmission of HTLV-I as a major route in the endemic cycle of
HTLV-I was established by epidemiologic evidence that (1) 22% (17/78) of children
of HTLV-I carrier mothers were themselves carriers, in contrast to approximately 
1% of the young age population of the same area, (2) more than 95% (23/24) of
mothers of carrier children were themselves carriers, and (3) the product of the 
prevalence of carrier mothers and the incidence of carriers in children born to
them corresponded well to the prevalence of carrier children in the same area.
Intrauterine infection was not likely, since none of over 200 cord bloods of
babies born to carrier mothers showed infection markers, such as IgM antibody or 
viral antigens. The possibility of milk-borne transmission was supported by (1)
the presence of sufficient numbers of infected T-cells in the milk of carrier
mothers, (2) the fact that a common marmoset was found to be a carrier after oral
administration of the milk of carrier mothers, and (3) a retrospective analysis
which revealed that none of nine babies fed only compound milk were carriers. An 
ongoing intervention study showed that none of 47 babies whose mothers refrained 
from breast feeding had seroconverted at 12 months of age. Compound milk feeding 
by carrier mothers seems to be an effective measure to reduce dramatically the
infection rate of HTLV-I.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1442-200x.1989.tb01329.x 
PMID: 2514566  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

