

442. Neuroimage. 2019 Nov 15;202:116147. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2019.116147. Epub
2019 Aug 31.

Task-based fMRI of a free-viewing visuo-saccadic network in the marmoset monkey.

Schaeffer DJ(1), Gilbert KM(2), Hori Y(2), Hayrynen LK(2), Johnston KD(3), Gati
JS(2), Menon RS(4), Everling S(5).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Functional and Metabolic Mapping, Robarts Research Institute,
University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, Canada. Electronic address:
dschaeff@uwo.ca.
(2)Centre for Functional and Metabolic Mapping, Robarts Research Institute,
University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, Canada.
(3)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, University of Western Ontario,
London, Ontario, Canada.
(4)Centre for Functional and Metabolic Mapping, Robarts Research Institute,
University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, Canada; Department of Physiology 
and Pharmacology, University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, Canada.
(5)Centre for Functional and Metabolic Mapping, Robarts Research Institute,
University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, Canada; Department of Physiology 
and Pharmacology, University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, Canada.
Electronic address: severling@uwo.ca.

Saccadic tasks are often used to index aberrations of cognitive function in
patient populations, with several neuropsychiatric and neurologic disorders
characterized by saccadic dysfunction. The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus)
has received recent attention as an additional primate model for studying the
neural basis of these dysfunctions - marmosets are amenable to a host of genetic 
manipulation techniques and have a lissencephalic cortex, which is well suited
for a variety of recording techniques (e.g., calcium imaging, laminar
electrophysiology). Because the marmoset cortex is mostly lissencephalic,
however, the locations of frontal saccade-related regions (e.g., frontal eye
fields (FEF)) are less readily identified than in Old World macaque monkeys.
Further, although high quality histology-based atlases do exist for marmosets,
identifying these regions based on histology alone is not always accurate, with
the cytoarchitectonic boundaries often inconsonant with functional boundaries. As
such, there is a need to map the functional location of these regions directly.
Task-based functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) is of utility in this
regard, allowing for detection of whole-brain signal changes in response to
moving stimuli. Here, we conducted task-based fMRI in marmosets at ultra-high
field (9.4 T) during a free-viewing visuo-saccadic task. We also conducted the
same task in humans at ultra-high field (7 T) to validate that our simple task
was indeed evoking the visuo-saccadic circuitry we expected (as defined by a
meta-analysis of fMRI saccade studies). In the marmosets, we found that the task 
evoked a robust visuo-saccadic topology, with visual cortex (V1, V2, V3, V4)
activation extending ventrally to MT, MST, FST and dorsally into V6, 19M, 23V.
This topology also included putative cingulate eye field (area 32 and 24d),
posterior parietal cortex (with strongest activation in lateral intraparietal
area (LIP)), and a frontolateral peak in area 8 aV in marmosets, extending into
45, 46, 8aD, 6DR, 8c, 6 aV, 6DC. Overall, these results support the view that
marmosets are a promising preclinical modelling species for studying saccadic
dysfunction related to neuropsychiatric or neurodegenerative human brain
diseases.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2019.116147 
PMID: 31479755  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


443. J Neurosci. 2019 Oct 9;39(41):8024-8037. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0895-19.2019.
Epub 2019 Aug 28.

Mice Discriminate Stereoscopic Surfaces Without Fixating in Depth.

Samonds JM(1), Choi V(2), Priebe NJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Learning and Memory, Center for Perceptual Systems, and The
Institute for Neuroscience, The University of Texas at Austin, Austin, Texas
78712 samondjm@gmail.com.
(2)Center for Learning and Memory, Center for Perceptual Systems, and The
Institute for Neuroscience, The University of Texas at Austin, Austin, Texas
78712.

Stereopsis is a ubiquitous feature of primate mammalian vision, but little is
known about if and how rodents such as mice use stereoscopic vision. We used
random dot stereograms to test for stereopsis in male and female mice, and they
were able to discriminate near from far surfaces over a range of disparities,
with diminishing performance for small and large binocular disparities. Based on 
two-photon measurements of disparity tuning, the range of disparities represented
in the visual cortex aligns with the behavior and covers a broad range of
disparities. When we examined their binocular eye movements, we found that,
unlike primates, mice did not systematically vary relative eye positions or use
vergence eye movements when presented with different disparities. Nonetheless,
the representation of disparity tuning was wide enough to capture stereoscopic
information over a range of potential vergence angles. Although mice share
fundamental characteristics of stereoscopic vision with primates and carnivores, 
their lack of disparity-dependent vergence eye movements and wide neuronal
representation suggests that they may use a distinct strategy for
stereopsis.SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT Binocular vision allows us to derive depth
information by comparing right and left eye information. We characterized
binocular integration in mice because tools exist in these animals to dissect the
underlying neural circuitry for binocular vision. Using random dot stereograms,
we find that behavior and disparity tuning in the visual cortex share fundamental
characteristics with primates, but we did not observe any evidence of
disparity-dependent changes in vergence angle. We propose that mice use a
distinct strategy of stereopsis compared with primates by using a broad range of 
disparities to encode depth over a large field of view and to compensate for
nonstereoscopic changes in vergence angle that arise during natural behavior.

Copyright © 2019 the authors.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0895-19.2019 
PMCID: PMC6786824
PMID: 31462533  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

