

4422. J Hypertens Suppl. 1989 Apr;7(2):S37-42.

Haemodynamic effects of acute and chronic renin inhibition in marmosets.

Wood JM(1), Baum HP, Forgiarini P, Gulati N, Jobber RA, Neisius D, Hofbauer KG.

Author information: 
(1)Research Department, Ciba-Geigy Ltd, Basel, Switzerland.

We have developed marmoset models for the in vivo evaluation of primate-specific 
inhibitors of human renin. After acute intravenous administration to normotensive
sodium-depleted marmosets, renin inhibitors of different structural types induced
a maximum hypotensive response of a magnitude similar to that induced after
angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibition. The response was prevented by
pretreatment with an ACE inhibitor. A close relationship between the inhibition
of plasma renin activity (PRA) and the fall in blood pressure was observed with
most of the inhibitors. CGP 29,287, a synthetic renin inhibitor, and R-3-36-16, a
monoclonal antibody, both induced a selective increase in renal blood flow
similar to that induced by an ACE inhibitor. A sustained reduction in blood
pressure was observed during continuous administration of CGP 29,287 or R-3-36-16
over 14 days, despite an increase in immunoreactive renin and an apparent
recovery of PRA. A similar blood pressure fall and an increase in plasma renin
was observed during continuous administration of an ACE inhibitor. The renin
inhibitor CGP 29,287 also lowered blood pressure after acute administration to
hypertensive marmosets with normal PRA. Our studies demonstrate that renin
inhibitors have similar haemodynamic effects to ACE inhibitors, and indicate that
they may have a similar antihypertensive efficacy.

DOI: 10.1097/00004872-198904002-00009 
PMID: 2547039  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4423. Endocrinology. 1989 Apr;124(4):1669-77.

Developmental changes in luteinizing hormone/human chorionic gonadotropin
steroidogenic responsiveness in marmoset granulosa cells: effects of
follicle-stimulating hormone and androgens.

Shaw HJ(1), Hillier SG, Hodges JK.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Zoology, Zoological Society of London, United Kingdom.

Factors regulating LH/hCG responsiveness in primate granulosa cells were examined
in the marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus). Granulosa cells were isolated and
pooled from small antral (0.5-1.0 mm) and large preovulatory (greater than or
equal to 2 mm) follicles from mid- to late follicular phase ovaries of cyclic
marmosets. The cells from small and large follicles were cultured in serum-free
medium for 48 h in the absence or presence of increasing concentrations of hCG
(0.1-100 ng/ml) with or without 0.1 microM androgen [testosterone or 5
alpha-dihydrotestosterone (DHT]). Granulosa cells from small follicles were also 
cultured in the absence or presence of a constant concentration of human FSH (30 
ng/ml) with or without androgen for 48 h before exposure to hCG for an additional
48 h. Steroidogenic responsiveness was assessed by measuring progesterone
accumulation in culture medium and aromatase activity in washed monolayers.
Granulosa cells from large follicles showed dose-dependent increases in both
progesterone accumulation and aromatase activity in response to treatment with
hCG. In contrast, granulosa cells from small follicles were unresponsive to hCG. 
However, pretreatment of granulosa cells from small follicles for 48 h with FSH
stimulated hCG responsiveness. The effects of both testosterone and DHT on
hCG-stimulated aromatase activity and progesterone accumulation by granulosa
cells from large preovulatory follicles were inhibitory. Testosterone and DHT
also suppressed basal (no hCG) progesterone accumulation in these cells, but had 
no effect on basal aromatase activity. The effects of androgens on FSH-induced
hCG responsiveness in immature granulosa cells were variable. The results show a 
development-related increase in marmoset granulosa cell responsiveness to LH/hCG 
and provide evidence that FSH and androgens interact to regulate the onset and
expression of this critical event during preovulatory follicular development in
the primate ovary.

DOI: 10.1210/endo-124-4-1669 
PMID: 2494036  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

