

4428. Brain Res Dev Brain Res. 1989 Feb 1;45(2):169-77.

The distribution of glial fibrillary acidic protein and vimentin in postnatal
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) brain.

McDermott KW(1), Lantos PL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuropathology, Institute of Psychiatry, London.

Antisera to glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and vimentin were used to
elucidate the distribution of these intermediate filament proteins in postnatal
marmoset brains of various ages. The ependyma of the lateral ventricles was
unique in being equally immunoreactive for both GFAP and vimentin at all ages.
Vimentin alone was consistently demonstrated in endothelial and leptomeningeal
cells at all ages. In neonates, vimentin immunoreactivity greatly exceeded that
of GFAP and was located primarily in radial glia in the subependymal plate of the
anterior cerebrum. Their vimentin-positive processes formed thick fascicles in
the corpus callosum but separated into fine fibres on entering the cortex. GFAP
immunoreactivity in these cells and processes was very limited. With age,
GFAP-positive cells increased in number and displayed the typical stellate
appearance of astroglia. The vimentin-positive radial glial population decreased 
considerably during this period and by 6 months had virtually disappeared. The
GFAP reaction in adult brain was even more widespread, largely due to the
increased number of positive astrocytes in the white matter. Vimentin
immunoreactivity in the adult was greatly diminished and positive radial glia
were not detectable. A major change in intermediate filament protein expression, 
therefore, occurs in the early postnatal period and probably reflects phases in
the differentiation of radial glial precursors into astrocytes.

DOI: 10.1016/0165-3806(89)90036-9 
PMID: 2496940  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4429. J Appl Toxicol. 1989 Feb;9(1):33-7.

The diagnostic usefulness of isocitrate dehydrogenase (ICDH) in the marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus).

Davy CW(1), Fulleylove M, Edmunds JG, Eichler DA, Rushton B, Tudor RJ, Walker JM.

Author information: 
(1)Roche Products Limited, Welwyn Garden City, Herts, U.K.

Marmosets were given either a hepatotoxin, carbon tetrachloride, orally or an
i.m. injection of a mytoxin, chlorpromazine. Although muscle damage alone caused 
small increases in the plasma levels of lactate dehydrogenase, alanine
aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransferase and isocitrate dehydrogenase (ICDH),
only the isoenzyme analysis of ICDH can differentiate definitely between liver
and muscle damage. Only very severe muscle damage can increase the plasma
concentration of this enzyme but, in this case, the elevation of plasma
creatinine kinase levels helps differentiation. It is recommended that the
elevation of ICDH is the most specific indicator of hepatic damage in the
marmoset.

DOI: 10.1002/jat.2550090107 
PMID: 2494250  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

