

4436. J Clin Epidemiol. 1989;42(9):885-93.

Fall in coronary heart disease mortality in U.S.A. and Australia due to sudden
death: evidence for the role of polyunsaturated fat.

Hetzel BS(1), Charnock JS, Dwyer T, McLennan PL.

Author information: 
(1)CSIRO Division of Human Nutrition, Adelaide, Australia.

Epidemiological studies have been reviewed which provide suggestive evidence of
an association between the fall in coronary heart disease mortality in the U.S.A 
and Australia since 1967, characterized by a fall in sudden deaths, to the
increase in polyunsaturate fat consumption that has occurred in both countries
since 1960. This association led directly in the same institution to carefully
designed experimental studies undertaken in the rat, and a non-human primate, the
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus jacchus) with a heart and lipid metabolism more
closely resembling that of man. In both animal species, a vegetable fat diet had 
a protective effect against the increase in contractility of isolated papillary
muscles induced by age, the addition of animal fat, or by isoprenaline in vitro. 
Similar effects were observed following coronary artery ligation, where the
extent of dysrhythmia was greatly reduced by supplementing the diet with a
linoleic acid rich vegetable oil. It is concluded that the combination of
epidemiological and experimental evidence indicates a protective effect of
dietary polyunsaturates against sudden cardiac death. This work illustrates the
value of the integration of epidemiological and experimental approaches to the
aetiology of disease.

DOI: 10.1016/0895-4356(89)90102-9 
PMID: 2506314  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4437. Z Mikrosk Anat Forsch. 1989;103(2):190-220.

[Ultrastructure of the gastrointestinal epithelium in the marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus)].

[Article in German]

Jablonski O, Gossrau R.

The epithelium of the stomach and intestine of one and three days old as well as 
adult marmosets was investigated using transmission electron microscopy and was
compared with already existing data of man and the laboratory rodents, rat, mouse
and guinea-pig. On postnatal day (PD) 1, the enterocytes possessed an
inframicrovillous membrane system and giant lysosomes which were absent in adult 
marmosets whereas the surface and glandular epithelial cells of the stomach
showed all structures which were also typical for adult animals. Enterocytes rich
in fat and glycogen were only present on PD 1. In the large intestine the
vacuolated cells were more frequently seen on PD 1 and 3 than in adult marmosets.
The endocrine cells of newborn animals corresponded to those in the gastric and
intestinal epithelium of mature animals, occurred everywhere in the lower
digestive tract and could be subdivided at least into EC, ECL, D and L and EG
cells respectively; a further subdivision was not possible by conventional
transmission electron microscopy. Compared with rats, mice and guinea-pigs mostly
used for developmental studies of the digestive tract, marmoset monkeys differed 
especially from the gastrointestinal epithelium of rats and mice but also from
guinea-pigs. By contrast comparisons with the human situation are difficult due
to the lack of representative electron microscopic findings on the
gastrointestinal epithelium. If one considers the close phylogenic relationship
between marmosets and man, the marmoset data should be transferable to the human 
situation rather than the findings obtained for rats, mice and guinea-pigs. In
the epithelium of the adult gastrointestinal tract clear-out ultrastructural
differences could not be found between these species.


PMID: 2505460  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

