

4441. Mov Disord. 1989;4(1):53-74.

The evolution and distribution of morphological changes in the nervous system of 
the common marmoset following the acute administration of
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine.

Gibb WR(1), Terruli M, Lees AJ, Jenner P, Marsden CD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuropathology, National Hospitals for Nervous Diseases, Maida
Vale, London.

Six young adult marmosets received 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine
in multiple doses (total 8-16 mg/kg over 2-13 days) sufficient to produce a
parkinsonian syndrome and were killed up to 3.5 months later. Cellular changes
were found in the substantia nigra, ventral tegmental area, and hypothalamus. The
earliest histological abnormalities were axonal swellings in proximal parts of
nigrostriatal axons. Subsequent changes in the substantia nigra were reduced
Nissl staining, reduced cell volume, and aggregation and loss of melanin
granules. Other effects were reduced nuclear and nucleolar volumes, depletion of 
cells, and hyperplasia of glial cells. Shrunken cytoplasm and nuclei stained
uniformly with eosin, and no cells showed cytoplasmic swellings or inclusions.
These cellular alterations, with nuclear changes resembling karyolysis, do not
occur in Parkinson's disease, which is characterised by Lewy body inclusions and 
signs of chromatolysis. The rapid appearance of axonal swellings, disruption of
Nissl substance, and cell shrinkage suggest an insult to energy producing
mechanisms. In this study, the absence of histological evidence of toxicity in
the locus coeruleus and also in the substantia innominata and in serotonergic
cell groups is unlike the more widespread degenerative changes of Parkinson's
disease.

DOI: 10.1002/mds.870040109 
PMID: 2494438  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4442. J Hirnforsch. 1989;30(3):375-84.

Differences in transneuronal transport of horseradish peroxidase conjugated wheat
germ agglutinin in the visual system: marmoset monkey and guinea pig compared.

Spatz WB(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oto-Rhino-Laryngology, University of Freiburg, Federal Republic 
of Germany.

Conjugates of the lectin wheat germ agglutinin with horseradish peroxidase have
been described as effective transneuronal tracers in different neuronal systems
of various mammalian species. Here, the failure is described to detect any sign
of transneuronal transport of the tracer in the visual system of adult marmoset
monkeys (Callithrix jacchus), in spite of heavy anterograde labeling in the
primary visual centers after intravitreous injections. In contrast, in the brains
of guinea pigs processed by identical technical parameters, transneuronal
anterograde labeling was readily recognized in the contralateral striate cortex, 
thalamic reticular nucleus, and parabigeminal nucleus. Furthermore, transneuronal
retrograde labeling of cell bodies was evident in the thalamic reticular and
paragibeminal nuclei, and in the striate cortico-geniculate and
cortico-collicular cells. The transneuronal labeling of the cell bodies in the
guinea pig striate cortex, which has not been demonstrated before, is taken as a 
measure for the sensitivity of the histological procedures applied. The failure
to demonstrate transneuronal labeling in the marmoset monkey, thus, appears to
indicate an interspecies difference in the mechanisms of transneuronal transfer
of the tracer used. Positive results in other mammalian species such as other
rodents, cat, and Old World monkeys, as obtained in this and other laboratories, 
further support this view.


PMID: 2473107  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

