

4444. Am J Phys Anthropol. 1988 Nov;77(3):377-84.

Kin preference in marmosets and tamarins: Saguinus oedipus and Callithrix jacchus
(Callitrichidae, primates).

Harrison ML(1), Tardif SD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Sociology and Anthropology, Kent State University, Ohio 44242.

Field studies on callitrichid primates have suggested that some species may
exhibit a communal breeding system in which two or more males mate with a single 
female and cooperatively participate in infant rearing. However, high levels of
aggression have been observed between males under both laboratory and field
conditions. In avian models for communal breeding, cooperating males are often
closely related. In a laboratory test of a hypothesis of the amelioration of
aggression based on kinship, four mated pairs of both Saguinus oedipus and
Callithrix jacchus were introduced to both novel male conspecifics and to their
own male siblings, from whom they had been separated for a minimum of 4 months.
Significant differences (P less than .01) were seen in the responses of the two
species to male conspecifics generally: S. oedipus males responded to intruders
with overt aggression significantly more frequently than did marmosets while C.
jacchus males more frequently scent-marked than did tamarins. Evidence of
preference for kin males was seen in the significantly decreased frequencies of
these behaviors in the presence of kin males over those observed in the presence 
of novel males. It is argued that, under field conditions, cooperation between
male callitrichids may be facilitated by kinship. Further, twin births, short
gestation lengths, and interbirth intervals seen in callitrichid primates all
contribute to the number of socially familiar kin with which an individual animal
might cooperate.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.1330770310 
PMID: 3147598  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4445. J Hered. 1988 Nov-Dec;79(6):418-24.

Comparative chromosome morphology in three Callitrichid genera: Cebuella,
Callithrix, and Leontopithecus.

Seuanez HN(1), Forman L, Alves G.

Author information: 
(1)Genetics Section, National Cancer Institute, Frederick, MD 21701.

A G-band karyotypic analysis was carried out in individual species groups of
three Callitrichid primate genera: Cebuella, Callithrix, and Leontopithecus.
Within Callithrix, the karyotypes of the morphologically distinct and
geographically isolated morphotypes C. jacchus jacchus and C. jacchus penicillata
were identical. Within the lion tamarin genus, Leontopithecus, the karyotypes of 
the three morphotypes (L. rosalia rosalia, L. rosalia chrysomelas and L. rosalia 
chrysopygus) were also indistinguishable from one another. These results are
consistent with the taxonomic designation of subspecies rank to the different
morphotypes. A comparison of type specimens among the three Callitrichid genera
showed that their phyletic radiation has been paralleled by a limited number of
chromosome rearrangements and a relatively high amount of karyotypic invariance. 
A fusion/fission event has been postulated to account for the difference in
diploid number between Cebuella (2n = 44) and the other species (2n = 46). The
karyotype of Callithrix jacchus was found to be more directly derived from
Cebuella than was that of Leontopithecus. These findings differ from the previous
proposition that Leontopithecus might have diverged from a common Callitrichid
ancestor before the emergence of the genus Callithrix.


PMID: 3145301  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

