

4445. J Hered. 1988 Nov-Dec;79(6):418-24.

Comparative chromosome morphology in three Callitrichid genera: Cebuella,
Callithrix, and Leontopithecus.

Seuanez HN(1), Forman L, Alves G.

Author information: 
(1)Genetics Section, National Cancer Institute, Frederick, MD 21701.

A G-band karyotypic analysis was carried out in individual species groups of
three Callitrichid primate genera: Cebuella, Callithrix, and Leontopithecus.
Within Callithrix, the karyotypes of the morphologically distinct and
geographically isolated morphotypes C. jacchus jacchus and C. jacchus penicillata
were identical. Within the lion tamarin genus, Leontopithecus, the karyotypes of 
the three morphotypes (L. rosalia rosalia, L. rosalia chrysomelas and L. rosalia 
chrysopygus) were also indistinguishable from one another. These results are
consistent with the taxonomic designation of subspecies rank to the different
morphotypes. A comparison of type specimens among the three Callitrichid genera
showed that their phyletic radiation has been paralleled by a limited number of
chromosome rearrangements and a relatively high amount of karyotypic invariance. 
A fusion/fission event has been postulated to account for the difference in
diploid number between Cebuella (2n = 44) and the other species (2n = 46). The
karyotype of Callithrix jacchus was found to be more directly derived from
Cebuella than was that of Leontopithecus. These findings differ from the previous
proposition that Leontopithecus might have diverged from a common Callitrichid
ancestor before the emergence of the genus Callithrix.


PMID: 3145301  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4446. J Endocrinol. 1988 Nov;119(2):249-55.

Early secretion of chorionic gonadotrophin by marmoset embryos in vivo and in
vitro.

Hearn JP(1), Hodges JK, Gems S.

Author information: 
(1)MRC/AFRC Comparative Physiology Research Group, Institute of Zoology, London.

The control mechanisms of early pregnancy in primates differ from those in
non-primate species in the early secretion of chorionic gonadotrophin (CG) by the
embryo and in the support of the corpus luteum. This study describes the
initiation of secretion of CG by the embryo of the marmoset monkey examined in
vivo and in vitro. A bioassay for gonadotrophin, which did not distinguish
between CG and LH, was adapted and validated for the marmoset. A system of embryo
culture was developed whereby embryos were grown from morula/blastocyst stages
until at least the differentiation of the trophoblast and yolk sac, facilitated
by the embryo attaching to a monolayer of marmoset fibroblast cells.
Gonadotrophin concentrations were measured in the peripheral circulation of
marmosets during precisely timed stages during the first 84 days of the 144-day
gestation period, providing a profile of secretion that was maintained at high
levels for longer than the profile seen in Old World primates, including man. A
clear increase above baseline levels was seen by day 17 after ovulation,
implantation commencing in the marmoset on days 11-13. Gonadotrophin was secreted
by embryos in culture from the time of attachment in vitro, but there was no
clear evidence of secretion before attachment. Levels of gonadotrophin secreted
by embryos in vitro increased rapidly, reaching a maximum mean production rate of
90 mIU/24 h within 4 days after attachment. The experimental systems developed
here will allow the examination of the local function of CG at the implantation
site, intra-embryonic control of its secretion and its possible involvement in
embryonic development.

DOI: 10.1677/joe.0.1190249 
PMID: 3143797  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

