

4459. J Endocrinol. 1988 Jun;117(3):329-39.

Social status controls LH secretion and ovulation in female marmoset monkeys
(Callithrix jacchus).

Abbott DH(1), Hodges JK, George LM.

Author information: 
(1)MRC/AFRC Comparative Physiology Research Group, Institute of Zoology, Regent's
Park, London.

The suppression of ovulation in subordinate female marmosets was associated with 
suppressed pituitary LH secretion and reduced pituitary LH response to
gonadotrophin-releasing hormone (GnRH). In subordinate females, basal plasma LH
concentrations were commonly below 2 IU/l (n = 5) (maximum 10.7 IU/l). Plasma
oestrogen concentrations were similarly low (maximum 0.62 nmol/l) and plasma
progesterone concentrations of below 30 nmol/l confirmed the anovulatory
condition. This infertility condition was rapidly reversed when subordinate
females (n = 5) were removed from their social groups and housed singly, when
plasma LH (maximum 140.0 IU/l) and oestrogen (maximum 7.84 nmol/l) concentrations
increased preceding ovulation. Infertility was rapidly reimposed when these
singly housed females were re-introduced to subordinate status in new social
groups, when plasma LH concentrations fell to their previous low values within 4 
days; no ovulation occurred thereafter. Plasma oestrogen levels also fell, but
less dramatically. The luteal phases of three of the subordinate females were
shortened following the re-instatement of subordinate status. The maximum LH
response of subordinate females to the highest dose of GnRH (200 ng) was only
19.1 +/- 6.7 IU/l (mean +/- S.E.M.; n = 8): this contrasted with that in dominant
females in either the follicular phase (40.0 +/- 13.3 IU/l; n = 6) or the luteal 
phase (126.7 +/- 24.9 IU/l; n = 10) of the ovarian cycle. These results suggest
that the social suppression of fertility in subordinate female marmosets is
mediated by impaired hypothalamic GnRH secretion. Such an immediate and precise
behavioural control of LH secretion and ovulation is without equal in anthropoid 
primates.

DOI: 10.1677/joe.0.1170329 
PMID: 3134506  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4460. Am J Pathol. 1988 Jun;131(3):477-83.

Characterization of colonic cellular glycoconjugates in colitis and cancer-prone 
tamarins versus colitis and cancer-resistant primates.

Moore R(1), King N, Alroy J.

Author information: 
(1)New England Regional Primate Research Center, Southborough, Massachusetts.

Differences in colonic secretory glycoconjugates (ie, mucin) between normal and
ulcerative colitis-prone patients have been noted. Similar differences may occur 
in a corresponding primate model, the cotton-top tamarin (CTT), Saguinus oedipus,
a New World monkey which suffers from spontaneous chronic colitis and colon
cancer. Lectin reagents were used to characterize and compare colonic cell
surface, cytoplasmic, and secretory glycoconjugates of 9 clinically healthy
cotton-top tamarins, 7 colitis-susceptible, cancer-resistant tamarins (Callithrix
jacchus, Saguinus fuscicollis), and 8 colitis and cancer-resistant primates
(Aotus trivirgatus, Saimiri sciureus, Macaca fascicularis, and Macaca mulatta).
Paraffin-embedded colonic sections were labeled with ten different biotinylated
lectins and visualized by the avidin-biotin peroxidase (ABC) method. Significant 
differences were demonstrated in the pattern of lectin staining between the
colitis-resistant and colitis-prone groups of primates. The differences were
noted with Griffonia simplicifolia-I (GS-I), Dolichos biflorus agglutinin (DBA), 
peanut agglutinin (PNA) before and after neuraminidase, Ricinus communis
agglutinin-I (RCA-I), soybean agglutinin (SBA), Ulex europaeus agglutinin-I
(UEA-I), wheat germ agglutinin (WGA), and succinylated WGA (S-WGA). Significant
differences between the CTT and phylogenetically related colitis-prone but
cancer-resistant tamarins were demonstrated with SBA, UEA-I, and PNA after
desialylation with neuraminidase. These results suggest that differences in
colonic cellular glycoconjugates between colitis- and cancer-susceptible species 
versus colitis-susceptible, cancer-resistant species may be associated with risk 
of cancer.


PMCID: PMC1880715
PMID: 3132857  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

