

4466. Hum Reprod. 1988 May;3(4):507-11.

Cellular aspects of pre-ovulatory folliculogenesis in primate ovaries.

Hillier SG(1), Harlow CR, Shaw HJ, Wickings EJ, Dixson AF, Hodges JK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, University of Edinburgh Centre for
Reproductive Biology, UK.

According to current concepts of pre-ovulatory folliculogenesis in primate
ovaries, each growing follicle has a 'threshold' requirement for stimulation by
FSH which must be met if it is to enter the oestrogen-secretory phase of
pre-ovulatory development. Until recently, our understanding of the
intra-follicular mechanisms underlying FSH action on granulosa cells was based
largely on information from non-primate laboratory animals, mainly polyovulators 
such as rats. The present paper describes studies on FSH-regulated granulosa cell
function in relation to pre-ovulatory development in vivo and in vitro using a
laboratory primate, the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). Measurement of
aromatase activity is used as an index of granulosa cell cytodifferentiation to
verify three major tenets of the 'threshold' hypothesis: (i) that granulosa cells
acquire increased responsiveness to FSH and LH during pre-ovulatory growth; (ii) 
that these developmentally related changes are directly induced by FSH; and (iii)
that intrafollicular steroids modify FSH action and thereby contribute to the
establishment of follicular FSH thresholds. The results obtained highlight the
value of this experimental animal model for studies of cellular and molecular
aspects of pre-ovulatory folliculogenesis which are relevant to human ovaries.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.humrep.a136736 
PMID: 3134394  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4467. Hum Reprod. 1988 Apr;3(3):389-93.

Normal in-vivo development of marmoset monkey embryos after trophectoderm biopsy.

Summers PM(1), Campbell JM, Miller MW.

Author information: 
(1)MRC/AFRC Comparative Physiology Research Group, Zoological Society of London, 
UK.

A procedure was developed to remove trophectoderm cells from day-8 blastocysts of
the marmoset monkey. Using micromanipulative techniques, a tear was made in the
zona pellucida opposite the inner cell mass which facilitated the controlled
herniation of trophectoderm cells as the blastocysts developed in vitro. After 24
h (day-9 blastocysts) and 48 h (day-10 blastocysts) of culture approximately 20% 
and approximately 50% respectively of the blastocyst had herniated. The herniated
trophectoderm was cut off by freehand and the biopsied blastocysts transferred to
recipients. Normal offspring were born but pregnancies could be established from 
day-10 blastocysts only if the recipients were treated with human chorionic
gonadotrophin during early pregnancy. One pregnancy was established after the
transfer of three frozen biopsied day-10 blastocysts. Biopsies of 30-50 cells
from day-10 blastocysts could be readily grown in vitro as trophoblast vesicles
to in excess of 1000 cells but biopsies of less than 20 cells from day-9
blastocysts formed a monolayer of binucleated and multinucleated cells with
limited cell replication. Assuming human trophectoderm cells have a similar
capacity to the marmoset to grow in vitro, the application of this technique to
human blastocysts would provide sufficient cells on which the preimplantation
diagnosis of a genetic disorder could be made.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.humrep.a136713 
PMID: 3372701  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

