

4473. Hum Reprod. 1988 Apr;3(3):395-8.

Expression of C-type viral particles at implantation in the marmoset monkey.

Smith CA(1), Moore HD.

Author information: 
(1)MRC/AFRC Comparative Physiology Research Group, Zoological Society of London, 
UK.

Type C RNA retroviral particles have been observed budding from the plasma
membrane of syncytiotrophoblast during a study of embryo implantation in the
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). These viral particles appear in profusion
at the interface of syncytiotrophoblast with cytotrophoblast. They appear to be a
non-infective, endogenous viral component of the host genome, although the
precise role of the C-type virus in this context is unclear at present. Such
viral particles have been reported previously from studies of human term
placenta; however, this is the first report indicating that expression of viral
particles occurs at the earliest stages of embryo implantation.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.humrep.a136714 
PMID: 2836475  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4474. J Comp Neurol. 1988 Mar 8;269(2):235-48.

Connections of the primary auditory cortex in the common marmoset, Callithrix
jacchus jacchus.

Aitkin LM(1), Kudo M, Irvine DR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Melbourne, Australia.

The afferent and efferent connections of the primary auditory cortex (AI) of
common marmosets were traced following small injections of wheat germ agglutinin 
conjugated with horseradish peroxidase (WGA-HRP) made at best frequency
(BF)-defined sites in the AI. After the injections the animals remained
anesthetized for 15-23 hours; they were then perfused transcardially with
fixative and the brains were processed for WGA-HRP reaction product. Examination 
of the disposition of labelled material revealed the following results. First,
patches of terminal labelling, and to a lesser extent retrograde labelling, were 
found outside the injection site in the ipsilateral cortex rostral and caudal to 
the AI. Second, the region of the contralateral cortex corresponding to the
injection site contained labelled terminals throughout the depth of the cortex;
labelled neurons were found in the middle layers. Third, in each experiment a
discrete region of the medial geniculate body (MG) contained retrogradely
labelled neurons interspersed with anterogradely labelled terminals. These
regions had a banded appearance, were found in the dorsal and rostral half of the
MG, and shifted in location progressively dorsalward as the injection site BF
increased. The presence of projection zones rostral and caudal to the AI of
marmosets, and the disposition of the MG sources of projection in relation to BF,
are similar to observations made on other New World monkeys. The ipsilateral
corticocortical projections confirm electrophysiological evidence suggesting the 
existence of auditory fields rostral and caudal to the AI. The thalamocortical
auditory system of the marmoset appears relatively simple, with a comparatively
undifferentiated MG projecting to a cortical auditory system dominated by a large
AI.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.902690208 
PMID: 3128585  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

