

4478. J Comp Neurol. 1988 Feb 8;268(2):234-47.

Postnatal development of dendrites of relay neurons in the lateral geniculate
nucleus of the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus): a quantitative Golgi study.

Fritschy JM(1), Garey LJ.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Anatomy, University of Lausanne, Switzerland.

Dendrites of multipolar relay neurons in the lateral geniculate nucleus of the
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), at various ages from birth to adulthood, were
studied in rapid Golgi preparations. The dendrites were analyzed by means of
three-dimensional computer reconstructions and decomposed into intermediate and
terminal segments, both of which were further classified according to their
centrifugal order. Measurements were made of the number of segments per dendrite,
the total length of dendrites, and the mean length of intermediate and terminal
segments. In adult marmosets, there are four stem dendrites on average per
neuron, and each dendrite divides into a mean of 14 segments. Between birth and 6
weeks of age, the mean dendritic length doubles, mainly because of changes in
terminal segments. There is a significant decrease in dendritic length into
adulthood. The total number of stem dendrites does not change after birth, but
during the first postnatal week dendrites lose distal segments, after which there
is a significant increase in the number of segments of orders 3 to 7. The mean
length of intermediate segments does not change with age, nor with order, whereas
the length of terminal segments increases from 50 to 120 microns from birth to 6 
weeks of age, and then decreases to the adult value of 80 microns. In conclusion,
during the period of most rapid visual development, important morphological
changes occur in geniculate relay-cell dendrites, involving essentially terminal 
segments. These observations correlate well with changes of geniculate volume and
neuronal density.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.902680208 
PMID: 3129457  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4479. Toxicology. 1988 Feb;48(2):209-24.

Chronic toxicity of 3,4,3',4'-tetrachlorobiphenyl in the marmoset monkey
(Callithrix jacchus).

van den Berg KJ(1), Zurcher C, Brouwer A, van Bekkum DW.

Author information: 
(1)Radiobiological Institute TNO, Rijswijk, The Netherlands.

Cotton top marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) were orally dosed with 3, 1, 0.1
or 0 mg 3,4,3',4'-tetrachlorobiphenyl (TCB)/kg body weight twice per week for
18-23 weeks. Severe toxicity occurred in the highest dose group. Clinical signs
of toxicity were a rapid decrease in body weight, alopecia, abnormal nail growth,
nodular enlargement of the nipple area and scaly skin. Haematological analysis of
peripheral blood revealed mild leukocytosis and anemia. Biochemical alterations
observed were elevated triglyceride levels and cholesterol levels. Histopathology
revealed dose dependent changes in a variety of tissues. Squamous metaplasia was 
found in skin and adnexa as well as in salivary glands. In the stomach, parietal 
cells were decreased and mucus producing cells were increased. The duodenal
mucosa was hyperplastic. Ovaries showed an absence of corpora lutea. In the
thyroid follicular cell hyperplasia and hypertrophy were noted. Toxicity was less
severe in marmoset monkeys dosed with 1 mg TCB/kg, while minor toxic effects were
observed in the animals dosed with 0.1 mg TCB/kg. The marmoset monkey appears to 
be less sensitive to the toxic action of TCB than the rhesus monkey. The pattern 
of histological and biochemical changes induced by TCB in marmoset monkeys is
comparable to that described in humans and in other primate species exposed to
PCBs. The marmoset monkey model may be valuable for investigations on
human-related toxicity of PCBs.

DOI: 10.1016/0300-483x(88)90102-3 
PMID: 3124295  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

