

4479. Toxicology. 1988 Feb;48(2):209-24.

Chronic toxicity of 3,4,3',4'-tetrachlorobiphenyl in the marmoset monkey
(Callithrix jacchus).

van den Berg KJ(1), Zurcher C, Brouwer A, van Bekkum DW.

Author information: 
(1)Radiobiological Institute TNO, Rijswijk, The Netherlands.

Cotton top marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) were orally dosed with 3, 1, 0.1
or 0 mg 3,4,3',4'-tetrachlorobiphenyl (TCB)/kg body weight twice per week for
18-23 weeks. Severe toxicity occurred in the highest dose group. Clinical signs
of toxicity were a rapid decrease in body weight, alopecia, abnormal nail growth,
nodular enlargement of the nipple area and scaly skin. Haematological analysis of
peripheral blood revealed mild leukocytosis and anemia. Biochemical alterations
observed were elevated triglyceride levels and cholesterol levels. Histopathology
revealed dose dependent changes in a variety of tissues. Squamous metaplasia was 
found in skin and adnexa as well as in salivary glands. In the stomach, parietal 
cells were decreased and mucus producing cells were increased. The duodenal
mucosa was hyperplastic. Ovaries showed an absence of corpora lutea. In the
thyroid follicular cell hyperplasia and hypertrophy were noted. Toxicity was less
severe in marmoset monkeys dosed with 1 mg TCB/kg, while minor toxic effects were
observed in the animals dosed with 0.1 mg TCB/kg. The marmoset monkey appears to 
be less sensitive to the toxic action of TCB than the rhesus monkey. The pattern 
of histological and biochemical changes induced by TCB in marmoset monkeys is
comparable to that described in humans and in other primate species exposed to
PCBs. The marmoset monkey model may be valuable for investigations on
human-related toxicity of PCBs.

DOI: 10.1016/0300-483x(88)90102-3 
PMID: 3124295  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4480. J Med Virol. 1988 Feb;24(2):229-36.

Long-term protection against Argentine hemorrhagic fever in Tacaribe virus
infected marmosets: virologic and histopathologic findings.

Samoilovich SR(1), Calello MA, Laguens RP, Weissenbacher MC.

Author information: 
(1)Cátedra de Microbiología, Parasitología e Inmunología, Facultad de Medicina,
Universidad Nacional de Buenos Aires, Argentina.

Tacaribe virus may represent a better alternative than attenuated strains of
Junin virus (JV) for immunization against Argentine hemorrhagic fever (AHF)
because of possible risk of persistent infection of disease associated with live,
attenuated strains. Callithrix jacchus marmosets, which suffer 100% mortality if 
inoculated with the pathogenic XJ strain of JV, were used to evaluate possible
Tacaribe virus persistence, subclinical, or long-term disease and the duration of
protection against challenge with JV. Histologic studies did not show pathogenic 
changes due to Tacaribe virus in primates sacrificed from 7 to 480 days
postinoculation (pi). No virus was recovered in tissue samples after primary
culture or cocultures with sensitive cells. The presence of anti-Tacaribe
neutralizing serum antibodies and protection against pathogenic JV were detected 
up to 480 days after a single dose of Tacaribe virus. However, anti-Junin
antibodies were detected only after challenge. In other experiments, protection
against JV was evaluated histologically and virologically. Two primates were
immunized with Tacaribe virus, challenged with JV, and sacrificed 18 or 21 days
later. Subclinical histopathologic findings were associated with recovery of JV
only by the sensitive primary culture-coculture techniques. The immunogenicity,
degree of protection, and safety of Tacaribe virus indicate its potential as a
vaccine against human AHF.

DOI: 10.1002/jmv.1890240213 
PMID: 2832541  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

