

4500. J Reprod Fertil Suppl. 1988;36:49-58.

Embryonic signals during the peri-implantation period in primates.

Hearn JP(1), Gidley-Baird AA, Hodges JK, Summers PM, Webley GE.

Author information: 
(1)MRC/AFRC Comparative Physiology Research Group, Institute of Zoology, London, 
U.K.

During the peri-implantation period of pregnancy in primates, chorionic
gonadotrophin (CG) is the first clear signal of the embryo's presence and
viability. In the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) implantation begins on Day 11-12 
after ovulation and CG is secreted by the embryo from this time. The inner cell
mass is necessary for the normal secretion of CG by the trophoblast. Implantation
can be disrupted both in vivo and in vitro by antisera to the hCG-beta subunit.
The secretion of a platelet activating factor by the preimplantation embryo has
yet to be confirmed, as has the physiological function of this and other
preimplantation signals. Local sampling by perfusion of the corpus luteum allows 
a direct measurement of the interactions between luteotrophins and luteolysins,
as well as a method of screening potential new agents for regulating the function
of the corpus luteum.


PMID: 3142993  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4501. J Med Primatol. 1988;17(1):19-29.

Identification of the main gestagen metabolite in marmoset (Callithrix jacchus)
urine by NMR and MS spectroscopy.

Heger W(1), Hoyer GA, Neubert D.

Author information: 
(1)Institut fuer Toxikologie und Embryopharmakologie Freie Universitaet Berlin.

Hydroxypregnanolone is the most abundant progesterone metabolite in the urine of 
marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus). The substance is excreted as conjugate.
The concentration of this steroid may be monitored by high performance, thin
layer chromatography and postchromatographic derivatization. Hydroxypregnanolone 
was purified and subsequently identified by NMR spectroscopy and gas
chromatography/mass spectroscopy. The exact chemical structure is 5
alpha-pregnane-3 alpha, 7 alpha-diol-20-one.


PMID: 3130485  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

