

4506. J Virol. 1987 Oct;61(10):2951-5.

Successful infection of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) with human
varicella-zoster virus.

Provost PJ, Keller PM, Banker FS, Keech BJ, Klein HJ, Lowe RS, Morton DH, Phelps 
AH, McAleer WJ, Ellis RW.

The common marmoset, Callithrix jacchus, can be infected with human
varicella-zoster virus (VZV), both wild-type strain KMcC and attenuated vaccine
strain Oka/Merck. Infection was accomplished with either whole-cell-associated or
cell extract VZV by combined oral-nasal-conjunctival application and was
characterized by substantial and persistent anti-VZV antibody responses. The
infectivity of VZV for marmosets was destroyed by treatment of inocula with heat 
or UV light. Diluted inocula with as few as 40 PFU/ml were infectious for
marmosets. The lungs were demonstrated to be a major site of viral replication;
both the presence of viral antigens and signs of pneumonia were demonstrated in
lung tissues. Four serial passages of VZV KMcC were carried out in C. jacchus by 
a process of in vitro isolation and culturing of VZV from infected lung tissue
and reapplication of the cultured isolates to fresh animals. The isolated viruses
were identified as VZV both serologically and by restriction endonuclease
analyses. The C. jacchus infectivity model should prove useful for determining
the efficacy of subunit and live recombinant VZV vaccines as well as for the
study of zoster.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.61.10.2951-2955.1987 
PMCID: PMC255866
PMID: 3041014  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4507. Neuropharmacology. 1987 Sep;26(9):1327-35.

Behavioural consequences of the infusion of dopamine into the nucleus accumbens
of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Barnes NJ(1), Costall B, Domeney AM, Naylor RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Postgraduate School of Studies in Pharmacology, University of Bradford,
England.

Marmosets, shown to have comparable levels of spontaneous locomotor activity,
assessed in cages equipped with infra-red photocell units, could be separated
into "high", "moderate" and "low activity" responders on the basis of their
locomotor hyperactivity response to peripherally administered
(-)N-n-propylnorapomorphine [(-)NPA]. Animals selected as "low" and "high
activity" responders to (-)NPA were subjected to chronic infusion of dopamine, or
its solvent, bilaterally into the nucleus accumbens for 13 days through Alzet
osmotic minipumps. Both "low" and "high activity" responders exhibited an
increased locomotor activity which peaked on days 6-7 of the infusion. This
hyperactivity, caused by infusion of dopamine was antagonised by small doses of
sulpiride and fluphenazine. After the infusion, the level of spontaneous
locomotor activity of the marmosets was unchanged from pre-infusion values.
However, 2-3 weeks after discontinuing the infusion, the animals initially
classified as "low activity" responders showed markedly enhanced activity when
challenged with (-)NPA, and conversely, animals initially classified as "high
activity" responders showed a reduced responsiveness to (-)NPA. It is concluded
that the consequences of a persistent increase in the activity of dopamine in the
nucleus accumbens of the brain of the marmoset are to (a) enhance locomotor
activity during infusion and (b) after discontinuing infusion, to modify the
locomotor responsiveness to challenge with a dopamine agonist, with the direction
of the change dependent on the initial basal locomotor responsiveness to (-)NPA.

DOI: 10.1016/0028-3908(87)90095-5 
PMID: 2890118  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

