

4512. J Nutr Sci Vitaminol (Tokyo). 1987 Aug;33(4):299-312.

The influence of linoleate and vitamin E from sunflower seed oil on platelet
function and prostaglandin production in the common marmoset monkey.

McIntosh GH(1), Bulman FH, Looker JW, Russell GR, James M.

Author information: 
(1)CSIRO Division of Human Nutrition, Adelaide, Australia.

Vitamin E and linoleate, both of which are found in high concentrations in
sunflower seed oil, were examined independently for their influence on general
and blood-vascular parameters in vitamin E-deficient common marmosets. A vitamin 
E-deficient diet (-E, 4 micrograms/g) was supplemented with either 40
micrograms/g vitamin E (+E), vitamin E stripped sunflower oil (+10% SSO-E), or
SSO (+10% SSO w/w) in a 2 x 2 factorial designed experiment, and the diets fed
for 9 months to 4 even groups of common marmosets. Vitamin E deficiency was
associated in marmosets with a loss of skeletal muscle mass and of body weight,
enhanced peroxidative haemolysis of erythrocytes, increased white blood cell
counts, and in the SSO-E group a relative neutrophilia. Platelet reactivity was
increased with vitamin E deficiency, and to a greater degree with the SSO-E
group. Aortic prostacyclin production was significantly increased by the addition
of vitamin E, linoleate and both as SSO to the deficient diet, the effects being 
additive. Fatty acid changes associated with the different treatments reflected
the influence of high linoleate and vitamin E treatments. The platelet and aortic
arachidonate value in the SSO-E group showed the lowest and most variable value, 
and this was associated with greatest platelet aggregability. An adequate vitamin
E intake is essential for stabilising high PUFA diets and biomembranes and
enhancing the protective role of prostacyclin in blood vessels against
thrombogenesis.

DOI: 10.3177/jnsv.33.299 
PMID: 3437342  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4513. J Neurol Sci. 1987 Jul;79(3):287-300.

Fetal brain development in response to iodine deficiency in a primate model
(Callithrix jacchus jacchus).

Mano MT, Potter BJ, Belling GB, Chavadej J, Hetzel BS.

The common cotton-eared marmoset (Callithrix jacchus jacchus) has been used for
the first time as a primate model to study the effects of dietary iodine
deficiency on fetal brain development. Paired male and female marmosets were fed 
a low-iodine diet of maize, peas, meat meal, Torula yeast, maize oil and added
vitamins, minerals and amino acids for 6 months before mating. Offspring from
first and second pregnancies were compared with offspring from control marmosets 
fed the same diet but supplemented with iodine. Severe iodine deficiency in the
fetus at birth was evident by reduced plasma thyroxine levels, increased plasma
thyroid stimulating hormone levels, increased thyroid weight and reduced thyroid 
iodine content. Thyroid histology revealed hyperplasia, hypertrophy and absence
of colloid material in the follicles. Iodine deficiency caused a reduction in the
weight of the fetal brain and in particular the cerebellum. Brain cell number was
reduced in the cerebellum and brainstem but cell size was reduced in the cerebral
hemispheres. Histology of the brain revealed morphological changes in the
cerebellum and cerebral hemispheres. In the-cerebellum there was: an increase in 
the thickness of the external germinal layer indicative of impaired cell
acquisition; a decrease in total area; a decrease in molecular layer area; and an
increase in Purkinje cell (Pc) linear density due to a reduction in the length of
the Pc line. The decrease in molecular layer area and increase in Pc linear
density imply diminished ascending and lateral extension of Pc dendrites. Changes
in the cerebral hemispheres consisted of an increase in the density of neuronal
cell bodies in the granular band and a decrease in synaptic counts in the layer
between the pia mater and supragranular band of the visual cortex. Offspring from
second pregnancies compared to those from first pregnancies were more severely
affected and associated with lower plasma levels of maternal and fetal thyroxine.
These findings indicate the importance of maternal and fetal thyroid function in 
relation to fetal brain development in the primate.

DOI: 10.1016/0022-510x(87)90236-x 
PMID: 3612176  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

