

4513. J Neurol Sci. 1987 Jul;79(3):287-300.

Fetal brain development in response to iodine deficiency in a primate model
(Callithrix jacchus jacchus).

Mano MT, Potter BJ, Belling GB, Chavadej J, Hetzel BS.

The common cotton-eared marmoset (Callithrix jacchus jacchus) has been used for
the first time as a primate model to study the effects of dietary iodine
deficiency on fetal brain development. Paired male and female marmosets were fed 
a low-iodine diet of maize, peas, meat meal, Torula yeast, maize oil and added
vitamins, minerals and amino acids for 6 months before mating. Offspring from
first and second pregnancies were compared with offspring from control marmosets 
fed the same diet but supplemented with iodine. Severe iodine deficiency in the
fetus at birth was evident by reduced plasma thyroxine levels, increased plasma
thyroid stimulating hormone levels, increased thyroid weight and reduced thyroid 
iodine content. Thyroid histology revealed hyperplasia, hypertrophy and absence
of colloid material in the follicles. Iodine deficiency caused a reduction in the
weight of the fetal brain and in particular the cerebellum. Brain cell number was
reduced in the cerebellum and brainstem but cell size was reduced in the cerebral
hemispheres. Histology of the brain revealed morphological changes in the
cerebellum and cerebral hemispheres. In the-cerebellum there was: an increase in 
the thickness of the external germinal layer indicative of impaired cell
acquisition; a decrease in total area; a decrease in molecular layer area; and an
increase in Purkinje cell (Pc) linear density due to a reduction in the length of
the Pc line. The decrease in molecular layer area and increase in Pc linear
density imply diminished ascending and lateral extension of Pc dendrites. Changes
in the cerebral hemispheres consisted of an increase in the density of neuronal
cell bodies in the granular band and a decrease in synaptic counts in the layer
between the pia mater and supragranular band of the visual cortex. Offspring from
second pregnancies compared to those from first pregnancies were more severely
affected and associated with lower plasma levels of maternal and fetal thyroxine.
These findings indicate the importance of maternal and fetal thyroid function in 
relation to fetal brain development in the primate.

DOI: 10.1016/0022-510x(87)90236-x 
PMID: 3612176  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4514. Placenta. 1987 Jul-Aug;8(4):411-22.

Characteristics of trophoblastic tissue derived from in vitro culture of
preimplantation embryos of the common marmoset monkey.

Summers PM(1), Taylor CT, Hearn JP.

Author information: 
(1)MRC/AFRC Comparative Physiology Research Group, Institute of Zoology, London, 
UK.

The features of trophoblastic tissue derived from the in vitro culture of
marmoset monkey embryos have been described. Long-term trophoblast cultures (in
excess of three years in one case) were established from the primary trophoblast 
monolayer of four of 38 embryos; division of one of these embryos produced two
long-term cultures. The trophoblast cells retained their ability to synthesize
and secrete chorionic gonadotrophin (CG) during maintenance in vitro and were
capable of prolonging the luteal phase when transferred to the uterus of
marmosets. A characteristic feature of the cultures was the formation of multiple
fluid-filled vesicles enclosed by a single layer of cytotrophoblast cells and
attached to the culture dish by a small monolayer of syncytiotrophoblast cells.
The tissue was propagated by cutting vesicles into small pieces and placing into 
a fresh culture dish; attempts to subculture using single-cell suspensions were
unsuccessful. These cultures provide a convenient source of marmoset CG for
purification as well as an in vitro system for studying other secretory products 
of primate trophoblast.

DOI: 10.1016/0143-4004(87)90068-3 
PMID: 3120174  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

