

4521. Cardiovasc Res. 1987 May;21(5):369-76.

Radionuclide angiographic study of the influence of dietary lipid supplements on 
cardiac function in the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Charnock JS(1), McLennan PL, McIntosh GH, Barnden LR, Buttfield IH.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Human Nutrition, Glenthorne Laboratory, O'Halloran Hill, South
Australia.

Radionuclide angiography was used to examine the influence of dietary fat on
cardiac function in the common marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus jacchus) under
barbiturate anaesthesia. Animals were fed for 6-8 months with a low fat (4.5%)
reference diet or the same diet supplemented (12%) with sunflower seed oil or
sheep fat. Although there was a tendency towards increased heart rate, left
ventricular ejection fraction, peak ejection rate, and peak filling rate in both 
fat supplemented groups, significant increases in heart rate (+50%), peak
ejection rate (+71%), and peak filling rate (+84%) were found with sheep fat
supplementation, whereas only the vegetable oil supplement produced a significant
improvement in left ventricular ejection fraction (+23%). There were no
differences in resting blood pressure, and the main consequence of dietary fat
supplementation was a major increase in apparent cardiac oxygen consumption
(+58%) with the sheet fat diet, as determined by the pressure-rate index.
Infusion of isoprenaline hydrochloride (0.2 microgram.kg-1.min-1) increased all
indices of cardiac function towards common maxima. There were no differences in
either the depth or duration of anaesthesia between dietary groups. It therefore 
is unlikely that this contributed to any of the observed dietary induced
differences in cardiac function. It is suggested that dietary saturated animal
fat increased cardiac work and oxygen consumption at rest to the extent that
functional reserve to respond to stress was significantly diminished. Feeding a
linoleic acid rich polyunsaturated vegetable oil supplement was, however,
accompanied by evidence of some improvement in left ventricular ejection
fraction.

DOI: 10.1093/cvr/21.5.369 
PMID: 3652103  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4522. Parassitologia. 1987 May-Dec;29(2-3):251-61.

Experimental infections of simians with human malaria: attempts to infect
Callithrix penicillata with Plasmodium falciparum.

da Rocha EM(1), Pereira LH, Do Rosario VE, Krettli AU.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Parasitology, University of Minas Gerais, Brazil.

After reviewing the use of non-human primates of the Old and New Worlds for human
malaria research, we concluded that another experimental animal which is easily
available to use and possible to rear indoors is needed. Thus, we studied the
susceptibility of the marmoset Callithrix penicillata to Plasmodium falciparum
erythrocytic infections. The marmosets received various P. falciparum human
isolates, directly from a patient and from continuous cultures. The Palo Alto
strain, which has been adapted to the night monkey Aotus trivirgatus and further 
maintained in the squirrel monkey Saimiri sciureus was also used. In a total of
20 marmosets we performed 31 inoculations, with 10(5) to 10(9) parasites,
intraperitoneally, intracardiacly or intravenously. Blood samples from each
animal were examined daily up to day 90 post-inoculation. None of the intact
marmosets developed patent infections. Four out of 19 C. penicillata, previously 
splenectomized, showed circulating parasites for up to five days after
intravenous inoculation with the Palo Alto strain, becoming negative thereafter. 
Neither the addition to the simian diet of p-aminobenzoic acid, essential for the
parasite metabolism, nor drug-immunosuppression, improved the marmoset
susceptibility to P. falciparum.


PMID: 3149726  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

