

4522. Parassitologia. 1987 May-Dec;29(2-3):251-61.

Experimental infections of simians with human malaria: attempts to infect
Callithrix penicillata with Plasmodium falciparum.

da Rocha EM(1), Pereira LH, Do Rosario VE, Krettli AU.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Parasitology, University of Minas Gerais, Brazil.

After reviewing the use of non-human primates of the Old and New Worlds for human
malaria research, we concluded that another experimental animal which is easily
available to use and possible to rear indoors is needed. Thus, we studied the
susceptibility of the marmoset Callithrix penicillata to Plasmodium falciparum
erythrocytic infections. The marmosets received various P. falciparum human
isolates, directly from a patient and from continuous cultures. The Palo Alto
strain, which has been adapted to the night monkey Aotus trivirgatus and further 
maintained in the squirrel monkey Saimiri sciureus was also used. In a total of
20 marmosets we performed 31 inoculations, with 10(5) to 10(9) parasites,
intraperitoneally, intracardiacly or intravenously. Blood samples from each
animal were examined daily up to day 90 post-inoculation. None of the intact
marmosets developed patent infections. Four out of 19 C. penicillata, previously 
splenectomized, showed circulating parasites for up to five days after
intravenous inoculation with the Palo Alto strain, becoming negative thereafter. 
Neither the addition to the simian diet of p-aminobenzoic acid, essential for the
parasite metabolism, nor drug-immunosuppression, improved the marmoset
susceptibility to P. falciparum.


PMID: 3149726  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4523. Lab Anim Sci. 1987 Apr;37(2):217-9.

Visualization and biopsy of the colon in tamarins and marmosets by endoscopy.

Clapp NK, McArthur AH, Carson RL, Henke MA, Peck OC, Wood JD.

Endoscopic visualization and biopsy have been performed under anesthesia in more 
than 65 tamarins and marmosets to study the pathogenesis of colitis and cancer of
the colon. This procedure allows examination of the large bowel from the anus to 
the cecum and has been repeated at 2-6 month intervals with few complications.
However, care must be exercised not to perforate the colon. Successful use of
this technique will permit study of the pathogenesis of colonic diseases
throughout the life of the animal and should provide cause-effect information
about colitis and colon cancer in tamarins that may apply to the human diseases.


PMID: 3110502  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

