

4526. J Endocrinol. 1987 Mar;112(3):449-57.

Local production of progesterone by the corpus luteum of the marmoset monkey in
response to perfusion with chorionic gonadotrophin and melatonin in vivo.

Webley GE, Hearn JP.

The effect of human chorionic gonadotrophin (hCG) and melatonin on the local
production of progesterone by the marmoset corpus luteum was investigated in vivo
using a perfusion cannula system. Progesterone secretion was measured in 10-min
fractions of buffer which had been perfused through the corpus luteum at a flow
rate of 70 microliters/min for a maximum of 3 h in anaesthetized animals. Two
corpora lutea were cannulated in each animal; one for perfusion of test material 
and the other for perfusion with buffer alone as a control. Perfusion with hCG
(25 i.u./ml), investigated as a positive control, produced a marked stimulation
of progesterone secretion which increased 10-20 min from the start of perfusion
and reached a peak after 30-60 min. A stimulation of progesterone was also
observed after perfusion with melatonin (860 pmol/l). The response was evident
within 10-30 min of the hormone reaching the corpus luteum and was similar in
magnitude to that observed for hCG. The ability of melatonin to stimulate
progesterone secretion supports previous in-vitro studies and suggests an ovarian
action for melatonin in the primate. The local perfusion system described may
have potential uses in studies of luteal function related to aspects of
infertility or regulation of fertility.

DOI: 10.1677/joe.0.1120449 
PMID: 3559454  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4527. Arteriosclerosis. 1987 Mar-Apr;7(2):159-65.

Influence of dietary fats on blood coagulation and prostaglandin production in
the common marmoset.

McIntosh GH, McMurchie EJ, James M, Lawson CA, Bulman FH, Charnock JS.

Common marmosets were fed a standard marmoset diet (REF) or diets supplemented
with 12% (wt/wt) sunflower seed oil (SSO) or sheep fat (SF) for a period of 90
weeks. The values for coagulation indices, clotting time, and Russel viper venom 
time were consistent with decreased thrombotic tendency of platelets from animals
on the SSO diet relative to the low fat, REF diet animals, while an increased
tendency to thrombosis was observed with SF-fed marmosets. The SSO- and
SF-supplemented marmosets showed a significantly reduced thromboxane (TXB2)
generation from platelets aggregating to collagen (ASC) relative to the REF
group, while at 50 micrograms/ml ASC this difference was maintained only by the
SSO group. The SF diet-fed marmosets showed a reduced prostacyclin (measured as
6-keto-PGF1 alpha) generation from incubated aorta relative to the REF or SSO-fed
groups, which were not different from each other. A reduced proportion of
platelet phospholipid arachidonic acid (20:4, n-6) and increased alpha-tocopherol
concentration was consistent with the decreased aggregability and thromboxane
generation of platelets from SSO-fed marmosets relative to the REF and SF groups.
The SF diet-fed marmosets, on the other hand, showed minimal change in
arachidonic acid, alpha-tocopherol or platelet reactivity from the REF group.
These differing responses to dietary fats are discussed in relation to the
potential for the development of thrombosis and atherosclerosis.

DOI: 10.1161/01.atv.7.2.159 
PMID: 3107535  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

