

4534. Acta Anat (Basel). 1987;130(2):191-6.

Distribution of motoneurones innervating extraocular muscles in the brain of the 
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Clarke RJ(1), Aléssio ML, Pessoa VF.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Fisiologia e Farmacologia, Universidade Federal de Pernambuco,
Cidade Universitária, Recife, Brazil.

Extraocular muscle motoneurones were localised in the oculomotor nucleus (ON),
trochlear nucleus (TN) and abducens nucleus (AN) in the marmoset brain using the 
horseradish peroxidase (HRP) retrograde labelling technique. HRP pellets injected
into individual extraocular muscles revealed one or more groups of labelled
neurones occupying discrete loci within these nuclei. Relatively little overlap
of motoneurone pools was observed, except in the case of the inferior oblique and
superior rectus muscles. Injections of HRP into the medial rectus muscle revealed
three separate populations of labelled cells in the ipsilateral ON. Motoneurones 
innervating the inferior rectus muscle were mainly localised in the lateral
somatic cell column of the ipsilateral ON. A second smaller grouping was observed
in the medial longitudinal fasciculus. The inferior oblique muscle motoneurones
were localised in the ipsilateral medial somatic cell column intermingled with
motoneurones supplying the superior rectus muscle of the opposite eye. The
superior oblique muscle motoneurones occupied the entire TN and the lateral
rectus muscle motoneurones the AN. It was concluded that the organisation of
nuclei and subnuclei responsible for controlling the extraocular muscles in the
marmoset is broadly similar to that of other primates.

DOI: 10.1159/000146444 
PMID: 3142199  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4535. Physiol Behav. 1987;41(6):577-83.

Post-partum changes in hormones and sexual behaviour in captive groups of
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Dixson AF(1), Lunn SF.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Reproductive Biology Unit, Centre for Reproductive Biology, Edinburgh,
U.K.

Video-tape recordings were made of behavioural interactions in eight family
groups of marmosets for 24-30 days after parturition. Blood samples were
collected from females for measurement of plasma luteinizing hormone (LH) and
progesterone. A pre-ovulatory LH surge occurred in six females between days 10-18
(mean +/- sem, 13.8 +/- 1.3 days). In these groups, sexual interactions increased
in frequency during the post-partum period and males began to initiate mounts on 
days 1, 2, 2, 6, 8 and 10 respectively. Mount and ejaculation frequencies
increased significantly during the peri-ovulatory phase as compared to the
pre-ovulatory phase and females were more proceptive and receptive than in the
early post-partum period. Peri-ovulatory increases in sexual activity were more
pronounced in 3 groups in which females had failed to conceive. In the remaining 
3 groups, sexual interactions tended to continue at higher levels into the
post-ovulatory phase when the females were pregnant. In captive marmoset groups, 
copulatory behaviour during the post-partum period is stimulated by changes in
non-behavioural cues from the female (increased sexual attractiveness to the
male) as well as by changes in her behaviour (proceptivity, receptivity) which
vary in importance between individuals.

DOI: 10.1016/0031-9384(87)90314-3 
PMID: 3126512  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

