

454. J Neurophysiol. 2019 Oct 1;122(4):1502-1517. doi: 10.1152/jn.00389.2019. Epub
2019 Aug 7.

Behavioral training of marmosets and electrophysiological recording from the
cerebellum.

Sedaghat-Nejad E(1), Herzfeld DJ(1), Hage P(1), Karbasi K(1), Palin T(1), Wang
X(2), Shadmehr R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Computational Motor Control, Department of Biomedical
Engineering Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland.
(2)Laboratory for Auditory Neurophysiology Department of Biomedical Engineering
Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is a promising new model for study of
neurophysiological basis of behavior in primates. Like other primates, it relies 
on saccadic eye movements to monitor and explore its environment. Previous
reports have demonstrated some success in training marmosets to produce
goal-directed actions in the laboratory. However, the number of trials per
session has been relatively small, thus limiting the utility of marmosets as a
model for behavioral and neurophysiological studies. In this article, we report
the results of a series of new behavioral training and neurophysiological
protocols aimed at increasing the number of trials per session while recording
from the cerebellum. To improve the training efficacy, we designed a precisely
calibrated food regulation regime that motivates the subjects to perform saccade 
tasks, resulting in ~1,000 reward-driven trials on a daily basis. We then
developed a multichannel recording system that uses imaging to target a desired
region of the cerebellum, allowing for simultaneous isolation of multiple
Purkinje cells in the vermis. In this report, we describe 1) the design and
surgical implantation of a computer tomography (CT)-guided, subject-specific head
post, 2) the design of a CT- and MRI-guided alignment tool for trajectory
guidance of electrodes mounted on an absolute encoder microdrive, 3) development 
of a protocol for behavioral training of subjects, and 4) simultaneous recordings
from pairs of Purkinje cells during a saccade task.NEW & NOTEWORTHY Marmosets
present the opportunity to investigate genetically based neurological disease in 
primates, in particular, diseases that affect social behaviors, vocal
communication, and eye movements. All of these behaviors depend on the integrity 
of the cerebellum. We present training methods that better motivate the subjects,
allowing for improved performance, and we also present electrophysiological
techniques that precisely target the subject's cerebellum, allowing for
simultaneous isolation of multiple Purkinje cells.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00389.2019 
PMCID: PMC6843097
PMID: 31389752  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


455. Am J Primatol. 2019 Sep;81(9):e23038. doi: 10.1002/ajp.23038. Epub 2019 Aug 6.

A comparative study of litter size and sex composition in a large dataset of
callitrichine monkeys.

McCoy DE(1), Frye BM(2), Kotler J(1)(3), Burkart JM(4), Burns M(5), Embury A(6), 
Eyre S(7), Galbusera P(8), Hooper J(7), Idoe A(9), Goya AL(10), Mickelberg J(11),
Quesada MP(10), Stevenson M(12), Sullivan S(13), Warneke M(14), Wojciechowski
S(13), Wormell D(15), Haig D(1), Tardif SD(16).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Organismic and Evolutionary Biology, Harvard University,
Cambridge, Massachusetts.
(2)Department of Biological Sciences, Clemson University, Clemson, South
Carolina.
(3)Department of Psychology, Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts.
(4)Department of Anthropology, University of Zurich, Zürich, Switzerland.
(5)Division of Comparative Medicine, Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
Cambridge, Massachusetts.
(6)Department of Wildlife Conservation and Science, Zoos Victoria, Parkville,
Victoria.
(7)Wellington Zoo, Newtown, Wellington, New Zealand.
(8)Centre for Research and Conservation (CRC), Royal Zoological Society of
Antwerp (RZSA), Antwerp, Belgium.
(9)Apenheul Primate Park, Apeldoorn, The Netherlands.
(10)Zoology Department, Faunia-Parques Reunidos, Madrid, Spain.
(11)Animal Collections Department, Zoo Atlanta, Atlanta, Georgia.
(12)Bristol Zoological Society, Bristol, UK.
(13)Primate Department, Chicago Zoological Society, Brookfield, Illinois.
(14)Department of Animal Health, Chicago Zoological Society, Brookfield,
Illinois.
(15)Mammal Department, Durrell Wildlife Conservation Trust, Channel Islands, UK.
(16)Southwest National Primate Research Center, San Antonio, Texas.

In many birds and mammals, the size and sex composition of litters can have
important downstream effects for individual offspring. Primates are model
organisms for questions of cooperation and conflict, but the factors shaping
interactions among same-age siblings have been less-studied in primates because
most species bear single young. However, callitrichines (marmosets, tamarins, and
lion tamarins) frequently bear litters of two or more, thereby providing the
opportunity to ask whether variation in the size and sex composition of litters
affects development, survival, and reproduction. To investigate these questions, 
we compiled a large dataset of nine species of callitrichines (n = 27,080
individuals; Callithrix geoffroyi, Callithrix jacchus, Cebuella pygmaea, Saguinus
imperator, Saguinus oedipus, Leontopithecus chrysomelas, Leontopithecus
chrysopygus, Leontopithecus rosalia, and Callimico goeldii) from zoo and
laboratory populations spanning 80 years (1938-2018). Through this comparative
approach, we found several lines of evidence that litter size and sex composition
may impact fitness. Singletons have higher survivorship than litter-born peers
and they significantly outperform litter-born individuals on two measures of
reproductive performance. Further, for some species, individuals born in a
mixed-sex litter outperform isosexually-born individuals (i.e., those born in
all-male or all-female litters), suggesting that same-sex competition may limit
reproductive performance. We also document several interesting demographic
trends. All but one species (C. pygmaea) has a male-biased birth sex ratio with
higher survivorship from birth to sexual maturity among females (although this
was significant in only two species). Isosexual litters occurred at the expected 
frequency (with one exception: C. pygmaea), unlike other animals, where isosexual
litters are typically overrepresented. Taken together, our results indicate a
modest negative effect of same-age sibling competition on reproductive output in 
captive callitrichines. This study also serves to illustrate the value of zoo and
laboratory records for biological inquiry.

© 2019 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.23038 
PMCID: PMC6949018
PMID: 31389057  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

