

4541. J Med Primatol. 1987;16(3):151-64.

Determination of ovulation and pregnancy in the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) by 
monitoring of urinary hydroxypregnanolone excretion.

Heger W, Neubert D.

In Callithrix jacchus the urinary excretion of hydroxypregnanolone (5
alpha-pregnane-3 alpha, 7 alpha-diol-20-one) shows a luteal rise during the
ovulatory cycle. This progesterone metabolite can therefore be used as an
indication of ovulation, implantation, and subsequently for the persistence of
the pregnancy. The excretion can be monitored by high performance thin-layer
chromatography (HPTLC) and postchromatographic derivatization after enzymatic
hydrolysis of the conjugate. Profiles of urinary hydroxypregnanolone levels are
presented and correlated with luteinizing hormone excretion. The method is
noninvasive and therefore suited for long-term studies in these monkeys.


PMID: 3112406  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4542. Anat Embryol (Berl). 1987;176(1):87-97.

The basement membrane of the persisting maternal blood vessels in the placenta of
Callithrix jacchus.

Merker HJ, Bremer D, Barrach HJ, Gossrau R.

Formation and morphology of the thickened basement membrane-like layer around the
persisting maternal vessels of the Callithrix jacchus placenta were investigated 
from day 45 until term (day 142) using light, electron and immunofluorescence
microscopy. Thickening occurs with the establishment of contacts between the
vessels and the syncytiotrophoblast (day 48). Final thickness is reached at about
day 100. The course of the vessels shows wide gaps where the maternal blood flows
freely into the intertrabecular spaces. As revealed by electron microscopy, the
extracellular sheath around the maternal vessels consists of an inner
subendothelial basement membrane (3-6 microns) and an outer fibril-containing
layer (2-4 microns). Cell debris is seen between the two layers and in the
basement membrane. Plaques of granular and fine-filamentous material are
incorporated into the fibril-containing layer. The synthesis of the basement
membrane material is localized in the endothelial cells. Immunofluorescence
microscopy reveals collagen types IV and V, laminin and heparan sulfate
proteoglycan (BM-1) in the sheath around the persisting vessels. Fibronectin
occurs only in certain areas or in the form of dots. Collagen types I and III are
not seen in the region of the vascular wall. It can, therefore, be assumed that
the subendothelial layer represents a genuine basement membrane; the fibrils
consist of collagen type V and the plaques contain fibronectin. The existence of 
the thick perivascular sheath is attributed to the persistence and stability of
the maternal vessels.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00309756 
PMID: 3111301  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

