

4546. J Med Virol. 1987 Jan;21(1):67-74.

Protection of Junín virus-infected marmosets by passive administration of immune 
serum: association with late neurologic signs.

Avila MM, Samoilovich SR, Laguens RP, Merani MS, Weissenbacher MC.

Argentine hemorrhagic fever (Junín virus) is a human viral disease for which
immune therapy proves effective, though a late neurologic syndrome is
occasionally associated with the treatment. We attempted to determine in the
infected marmoset Callithrix jacchus whether immune therapy leads to protection
and/or CNS damage. Fifteen C jacchus were inoculated with 10(3) tissue culture
infectious dose 50% (TCID50) of the XJ strain of Junín virus. On day 6 post
infection (pi), 12 primates were treated with homologous immune serum. Animals
were observed daily; and hematologic, serologic, virologic, and histologic
studies were performed. All primates, both treated and controls, presented
leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, anemia, and weight loss from day 14 pi onward. The 
three control animals died on days 22, 25, and 32 pi. Among the 12 treated
monkeys, 3 died on days 21, 22, and 29. Hematologic values returned to normal
during the second month; initial weight was recovered by the fourth month. Three 
out of the nine survivors showed neurologic alterations of various degrees, with 
hind-limb paralysis in the most severe case. Among treated monkeys, viremia and
viral titers in the lungs, kidney, and lymph nodes were lower than in controls.
Neutralizing antibodies were present in high titers in all treated marmosets,
except in the one presenting paralysis in which values were minimal and viral
persistence was detected in CNS. In conclusion, immune serum treatment of Junín
virus-infected marmosets was found to reduce mortality from 100% to 25%. Viremia 
and viral titers in organs were lowered, and late neurologic signs appeared in
30% of treated survivors.

DOI: 10.1002/jmv.1890210109 
PMID: 3025358  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4547. Histochemistry. 1987;86(6):621-5.

Histochemical localization of 3 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase in marmoset
ovaries during pro- and diestrus, with special reference to substrate
specificity.

Rune GM, Heger W.

We applied qualitative cytochemical procedures to investigate and compare the
distribution of 3 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenases (HSDH) in pro- and diestrus 
ovaries of sexually mature marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) using
dehydroepiandrosterone or etiocholane-3 beta-ol-17-one as the substrate. During
proestrus dehydroepiandrosterone dehydrogenase (3 beta-5 alpha-HSDH) activity was
found in the theca of tertiary follicles and in atretic granulosa cells. In
granulosa cells at advanced stages of degeneration, HSDH activity was distinctly 
higher than in thecal cells. The activity of etiocholane-3 beta-ol-17-one
dehydrogenase (3 beta-5 beta-HSDH) exhibited a gradient in preovulatory
follicles, ranging from high levels in granulosa cells adjacent to the basement
membrane to low levels in cells bordering on the antrum and in cumulus oophorus
cells. During diestrus 3 beta-5 alpha-HSDH activity was only detected in the
corpora lutea; the level of 3 beta-5 beta-HSDH activity was unchanged in the
theca of tertiary follicles and was high in the cells of the corpora lutea. HSDH 
activity was no longer detectable in atretic granulosa cells using either
dehydroepiandrosterone or etiocholane-3 beta-ol-17-one as the substrate.
Comparison of the distribution of HSDH during proestrus and diestrus revealed
that steroidogenesis in marmoset ovaries occurs in follicular elements during
diestrus and almost exclusively in the corpora lutea during diestrus. From this
phase-dependent localization, it is possible to determine the stage of the
estrous cycle. Furthermore, our findings indicate that the localization of HSDH
is dependent on the conformational structure of the substrate used.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00489557 
PMID: 2956223  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

