

4583. Physiol Behav. 1986;37(3):447-50.

Genital sensory feedback and sexual behaviour in male and female marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus).

Dixson AF.

Local anaesthesia (using lidocaine) of the penis, or of the vagina and cervix
caused marked changes in the sexual behaviour of marmosets. Penile
desensitization did not affect sexual arousal or erectile capacity. However,
intromission latencies increased and 7 out of 10 males failed to intromit during 
some post-lidocaine tests. Females failed to show several behavioural patterns
which normally occur during intromission (shrugging body movements, head turning 
and opening the mouth) or exhibited them at reduced frequencies after
intra-vaginal application of lidocaine. The tendency of females to terminate
mounts after ejaculation had occurred was also reduced with resultant increases
in intromission duration in all cases. Desensitization of the females' external
genitalia had no effect upon sexual behaviour. Co-ordination of copulatory
behaviour in this primate species depends, in part, upon afferent stimuli from
the penis and from the vagina or cervix.

DOI: 10.1016/0031-9384(86)90204-0 
PMID: 3749303  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4584. Biol Res Pregnancy Perinatol. 1986;7(2):77-83.

Distribution of chloroform and methyl chloroform and their metabolites in
pregnant mice.

Danielsson BR, Ghantous H, Dencker L.

The distribution of radioactivity in pregnant mice was registered at different
time intervals (0-24 h) after a 10-min period of inhalation of 14C-labelled
chloroform and methyl chloroform. Autoradiographic and liquid scintillation
methods were used to make possible the distinction between volatile
(non-metabolized), water-soluble and firmly tissue-bound radioactivity. Methyl
chloroform was retained longer in fat as compared to chloroform. Metabolites of
chloroform were present in a much greater abundance than those of methyl
chloroform and they were found preferentially in the respiratory tract (nasal
mucosa, trachea and bronchi), liver and excretory organs. Tissue-bound activity
after chloroform inhalation or i.p. injection to newborn mice was found in the
respiratory tract and centrilobular areas of the liver. Volatile radioactivity
was observed in the placenta and fetuses at short time intervals after inhalation
of both chloroform and methyl chloroform at all stages of gestation. While a low 
level of radioactive metabolites of methyl chloroform was observed in the
fetoplacental unit, metabolites of chloroform accumulated with time. This fact
was especially marked in the amniotic fluid, where the peak level of
radioactivity was observed at 4 h. In early gestation, metabolites accumulated in
the embryonic neural tissues. Tissue-bound metabolites of chloroform were
observed in the fetal respiratory epithelium in late gestation, indicating a
capacity for drug metabolism in these cells in the late fetal period.


PMID: 3730475  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

