

4584. Biol Res Pregnancy Perinatol. 1986;7(2):77-83.

Distribution of chloroform and methyl chloroform and their metabolites in
pregnant mice.

Danielsson BR, Ghantous H, Dencker L.

The distribution of radioactivity in pregnant mice was registered at different
time intervals (0-24 h) after a 10-min period of inhalation of 14C-labelled
chloroform and methyl chloroform. Autoradiographic and liquid scintillation
methods were used to make possible the distinction between volatile
(non-metabolized), water-soluble and firmly tissue-bound radioactivity. Methyl
chloroform was retained longer in fat as compared to chloroform. Metabolites of
chloroform were present in a much greater abundance than those of methyl
chloroform and they were found preferentially in the respiratory tract (nasal
mucosa, trachea and bronchi), liver and excretory organs. Tissue-bound activity
after chloroform inhalation or i.p. injection to newborn mice was found in the
respiratory tract and centrilobular areas of the liver. Volatile radioactivity
was observed in the placenta and fetuses at short time intervals after inhalation
of both chloroform and methyl chloroform at all stages of gestation. While a low 
level of radioactive metabolites of methyl chloroform was observed in the
fetoplacental unit, metabolites of chloroform accumulated with time. This fact
was especially marked in the amniotic fluid, where the peak level of
radioactivity was observed at 4 h. In early gestation, metabolites accumulated in
the embryonic neural tissues. Tissue-bound metabolites of chloroform were
observed in the fetal respiratory epithelium in late gestation, indicating a
capacity for drug metabolism in these cells in the late fetal period.


PMID: 3730475  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4585. Physiol Behav. 1986;36(5):971-3.

Proceptive displays of the female common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus): effects
of ovariectomy and oestradiol 17 beta.

Dixson AF.

Proceptivity in the common marmoset consisted of brief periods when females
remained with body and limbs immobile (IM) or crouched, and then stared,
lipsmacked and tongue-flicked at males. Treatment of ovariectomized females with 
oestradiol activated all these proceptive displays but did not influence the
combinations in which they occurred during IM periods.

DOI: 10.1016/0031-9384(86)90462-2 
PMID: 3714875  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

