

4590. J Hirnforsch. 1986;27(3):343-67.

Afferent connections of the substantia innominata/basal nucleus of Meynert in
carnivores and primates.

Irle E, Markowitsch HJ.

Afferent connections to the substantia innominata/nucleus basalis complex of
monkeys and cats were traced by using the method of retrograde transport of
horseradish peroxidase (HRP). Altogether ten injections of HRP were performed in 
four monkeys (Saimiri sciureus, Callithrix jacchus, Galago senegalensis) and in
four cats, with either vertical or oblique needle approaches. The entire brains
excluding the olfactory bulbs and the cerebellum were then screened for labeled
neurons. In both monkey and cat brains, many retrogradely labeled neurons could
be detected in the amygdala, hypothalamus, midline thalamus, zona incerta, and
the fields of Forel. Further but weaker labeling occurred in the medial septal
nucleus, diagonal band of Broca, olfactory tubercle, paraventricular, anterior,
mediodorsal, and central lateral thalamic nuclei, lateral habenula, ventral
tegmental area of Tsai, interpeduncular nucleus, parabrachial, raphe, dorsal
tegmental nucleus and the locus caeruleus. Cortically, prefrontal, insular,
entorhinal, prepiriform, and periamygdaloid areas of both species showed
considerable labeling as well as the whole temporal lobe of the monkeys used. The
perirhinal and basal temporal cortex of all cats showed moderate labeling. In
both monkeys and cats, extremely scarce labeling occurred within the cingulate,
retrosplenial, and subicular cortex. From an anatomical point of view, the
manifold connections of the substantia innominata/basal nucleus of Meynert found 
in this study underscore the participation of these nuclear groups in
motivational, emotional, and cognitive (e.g. mnemonic) functions. Considering the
widespread cortical efferents of this complex, it is suggested that the
substantia innominata/nucleus basalis of Meynert serves the transmission of
information arising within the limbic system to the whole neocortex.


PMID: 3093564  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4591. J Neural Transm Suppl. 1986;20:11-39.

The actions of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine in animals as a model
of Parkinson's disease.

Jenner P, Marsden CD.

The ability of MPTP to induce persistent parkinsonism in man may provide a vital 
clue to the cause of the idiopathic disease. However, the peripheral
administration of MPTP to rodent species only produces losses in brain dopamine
content and damage to the nigrostriatal system in high doses and no persistent
motor deficits have been observed. In contrast, in primates, the administration
of MPTP rapidly induces a persistent parkinsonian syndrome accompanied by
evidence for selective damage to the nigro-striatal dopamine containing system.
Other neurotransmitter systems appear unaffected by MPTP treatment. The
MPTP-treated primate responds to the administration of L-DOPA and other
antiparkinsonian drugs and may provide a useful test-bed for the development of
novel antiparkinsonian medication. Administration of MPTP to primates causes an
accumulation of MPP+ in a variety of brain areas. The accumulation of MPP+ and
the neurotoxic actions of MPTP in primates can be prevented by the prior
administration of monoamine oxidase inhibitors. The ability of monoamine oxidase 
inhibitors to prevent MPTP toxicity is related to the metabolism of MPTP by
monoamine oxidase B, probably extraneuronally in glia, to produce MPDP+ and
subsequently MPP+. In rodent synaptosomal preparations MPP+ is a substrate for
the dopamine uptake mechanism and so would be selectively accumulated in brain
dopamine neurones. Administration of MPTP to animals results in the production of
a partial model of idiopathic Parkinson's disease as it occurs in man. MPTP
treatment produces the major symptoms of Parkinson's disease in primates but the 
pathology is limited to the nigro-striatal system, whereas in Parkinson's disease
pathology is more widespread. Biochemical changes induced by MPTP again seem
primarily limited to those induced by damage to the nigro-striatal dopamine
containing system. MPP+ (or another metabolite of MPTP) may be responsible for
the neurotoxicity of MPTP but not all neurones which accumulate products of MPTP 
metabolism are damaged. The nigro-striatal system may be peculiarly sensitive to 
the effects of MPTP.


PMID: 3091760  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

