

4591. J Neural Transm Suppl. 1986;20:11-39.

The actions of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine in animals as a model
of Parkinson's disease.

Jenner P, Marsden CD.

The ability of MPTP to induce persistent parkinsonism in man may provide a vital 
clue to the cause of the idiopathic disease. However, the peripheral
administration of MPTP to rodent species only produces losses in brain dopamine
content and damage to the nigrostriatal system in high doses and no persistent
motor deficits have been observed. In contrast, in primates, the administration
of MPTP rapidly induces a persistent parkinsonian syndrome accompanied by
evidence for selective damage to the nigro-striatal dopamine containing system.
Other neurotransmitter systems appear unaffected by MPTP treatment. The
MPTP-treated primate responds to the administration of L-DOPA and other
antiparkinsonian drugs and may provide a useful test-bed for the development of
novel antiparkinsonian medication. Administration of MPTP to primates causes an
accumulation of MPP+ in a variety of brain areas. The accumulation of MPP+ and
the neurotoxic actions of MPTP in primates can be prevented by the prior
administration of monoamine oxidase inhibitors. The ability of monoamine oxidase 
inhibitors to prevent MPTP toxicity is related to the metabolism of MPTP by
monoamine oxidase B, probably extraneuronally in glia, to produce MPDP+ and
subsequently MPP+. In rodent synaptosomal preparations MPP+ is a substrate for
the dopamine uptake mechanism and so would be selectively accumulated in brain
dopamine neurones. Administration of MPTP to animals results in the production of
a partial model of idiopathic Parkinson's disease as it occurs in man. MPTP
treatment produces the major symptoms of Parkinson's disease in primates but the 
pathology is limited to the nigro-striatal system, whereas in Parkinson's disease
pathology is more widespread. Biochemical changes induced by MPTP again seem
primarily limited to those induced by damage to the nigro-striatal dopamine
containing system. MPP+ (or another metabolite of MPTP) may be responsible for
the neurotoxicity of MPTP but not all neurones which accumulate products of MPTP 
metabolism are damaged. The nigro-striatal system may be peculiarly sensitive to 
the effects of MPTP.


PMID: 3091760  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4592. Comp Biochem Physiol B. 1986;84(2):143-4.

Sulphoxidation of S-carboxymethyl-L-cysteine in the rhesus monkey (Macaca
mulatta), cynomologus monkey (Macaca fascicularis), African green monkey
(Cercopithecus aethiops) and the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Mitchell SC, Waring RH, Wilson VL, Idle JR, Autrup H, Harris CC, Ritchie JC,
Crothers MJ, Sieber SM.

The metabolic pathways giving rise to the urinary metabolites of
S-carboxymethyl-L-cysteine have been identified for the rhesus, cynomologus,
African green and marmoset species of monkey. The formation of a sulphoxide
metabolite from the sulphide precursor is a reaction important in these species. 
The metabolic profile displayed by the marmoset was distinct from the three Old
World species, with the rhesus and cynomologus being similar to man.

DOI: 10.1016/0305-0491(86)90195-1 
PMID: 3089678  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

