

4599. Fundam Appl Toxicol. 1985 Dec;5(6 Pt 2):S169-74.

The acute toxicity of sarin in marmosets (Callithrix jacchus): a behavioral
analysis.

D'Mello GD, Duffy EA.

In marmosets, the clinical signs of poisoning following the administration of
sarin and the effects of sarin upon performance in three behavioral test models
were investigated. The sensitivity of marmosets to the lethal action of sarin was
shown to be greater than that of rodent species and rabbits but very similar to
that of the rhesus monkey. Doses of sarin ranging from 33 to 55% LD50, resulting 
in erythrocyte acetylcholinesterase inhibitions of 88% or more, were shown to
disrupt the performance of a food-reinforced visually guided reaching response.
However, the pattern of disruption did not suggest a specific action of sarin
upon visuomotor coordination and could not be explained on the basis of an
indirect effect of this agent upon either feeding motivation or changes in gross 
mobility. It was suggested that possible changes in animals' perception of the
reaching task and/or their own drugged ability may be relevant to any
interpretation of sarin-induced changes in visuomotor coordination in this
species.


PMID: 3937760  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4600. Am J Phys Anthropol. 1985 Dec;68(4):499-517.

Forelimb anatomy of New World monkeys: myology and the interpretation of
primitive anthropoid models.

Dunlap SS, Thorington RW Jr, Aziz MA.

The forelimbs of 12 genera of New World monkeys, two genera of Old World monkeys,
and a gibbon were dissected. Of the 54 muscles examined, 19 exhibited significant
intergeneric variation. We present arguments for which morphologies are primitive
and which are derived within platyrrhines and within anthropoids. We conclude
that the forelimbs of Cebus apella and Callicebus moloch represent good models of
the ancestral anthropoid morphology. Thus among living anthropoids they are most 
appropriate for comparisons with early fossil anthropoids. They are also useful
for determining whether myological anomalies of human aneuploids are atavistic.
Wagner tree analyses were conducted to assess the value of these myological
characters in phylogenetic studies of platyrrhines. In most respects the Wagner
trees were consonant with phylogenies previously proposed, although some
hypothesized trees are less parsimonious than others in explaining our data.
There is an unexpected number of derived features shared by Aotus and the
Atelines. There are marked dissimilarities in forelimb musculature between Aotus 
and Callicebus.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.1330680406 
PMID: 3936364  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

