

4612. Parasitology. 1985 Jun;90 ( Pt 3):573-8.

Plasmodium brasilianum in the common marmoset Callithrix jacchus.

Wedderburn N, Mitchell GH, Davies DR.

Chronic quartan malarial infection has been established in the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus). Plasmodium brasilianum from a douroucouli monkey (Aotus
trivirgatus) was used to infect splenectomized twin animals, passed to an intact 
animal, and then to 4 other intact adults, 2 pairs of twins. In 2 of the 4 latter
animals there was continuing patency with parasitaemias of less than or equal to 
0.5% parasitized erythrocytes for 30 weeks. The other 2 had lower initial levels 
of parasitaemia; in 1 of these parasitaemias remained low or subpatent. All
marmosets developed lymphocytosis. One animal became ill 30 weeks after infection
with anaemia, weight loss and mild proteinurea, the other 3 remained well.
Histological examination showed minor changes in the kidneys; spleens of infected
animals showed marked follicular hyperplasia and phagocytosis of pigment. The
livers showed sinusoidal hypercellularity and pigment deposition and in
splenectomized animals, a marked lymphoid follicular hyperplasia in the portal
tracts.

DOI: 10.1017/s0031182000055566 
PMID: 3925423  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4613. Jpn J Cancer Res. 1985 Jun;76(6):481-7.

Oral transmission of human T-cell leukemia virus type-I into a common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus) as an experimental model for milk-borne transmission.

Yamanouchi K, Kinoshita K, Moriuchi R, Katamine S, Amagasaki T, Ikeda S, Ichimaru
M, Miyamoto T, Hino S.

To obtain experimental support for possible milk-borne infection of human T-cell 
leukemia virus type-I (HTLV-I), short-term-cultured viral antigen-positive
lymphocytes obtained from peripheral blood of adult T-cell leukemia lymphoma
complex (ATLL) patients were inoculated into the oral cavity of two adult common 
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) in amounts comparable to those of HTLV-I-carrying 
cells fed to a baby in the milk of seropositive mothers. One of the animals
seroconverted 2.5 months after the first inoculation. Cultures of peripheral
blood mononuclear leukocytes of the marmoset revealed HTLV-I antigen expression
in cells, indicating the establishment of oral infection of HTLV-I in an adult
marmoset. The cell number deduced to be responsible for the infection was 5.6 X
10(7) cells (used in the first 2 inoculations). The results suggest that the
concept of milk-borne infection of HTLV-I from a seropositive mother to her child
is plausible.


PMID: 2991061  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

