

4620. Folia Primatol (Basel). 1985;44(2):82-95.

Sexual dimorphism in the postcranial skeleton of New World primates.

Leutenegger W, Larson S.

This study examines sexual dimorphism in 24 dimensions of the postcranial
skeleton of four platyrrhine species: Callithrix jacchus, Saguinus nigricollis,
Saimiri sciureus, and Cebus albifrons. The two callitrichid species show a
relatively small amount of variation in the degree of sexual dimorphism among the
different dimensions. Variation is considerably higher in the two cebid species
as reflected by a mosaic pattern of sexual dimorphisms with males being
significantly larger than females in some dimensions, and females significantly
larger than males in others. In dimensions of the pectoral girdle and limb bones,
males and females in each of the two cebid species are essentially scaled
versions of each other, with males being peramorphic compared to females. This
pattern is primarily the result of time hypermorphosis, i.e. an extension of the 
growth period in time in males. Rate hypermorphosis, i.e. an increase in the rate
of growth in time in males, appears to play an additional role, however, in S.
sciureus. By contrast, in dimensions of the true pelvis, sex differences in shape
are dissociated from those in size. They are interpreted as the result of
acceleration, i.e. increase in rate of shape change in females, as an adaptation 
to obstetrical functions. Interspecific analyses indicate positive allometry of
mean degree of postcranial dimorphism with respect to body size. This coincides
with previous findings by Leutenegger and Cheverud [1982, 1985] on the scaling of
sexual dimorphism in body weight and canine size, and thus supports their model
which posits selection on body size as the prime mover for the evolution of
sexual dimorphism.

DOI: 10.1159/000156199 
PMID: 4043875  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4621. Physiol Behav. 1985 Jan;34(1):123-8.

Effects of oestradiol 17B, progesterone and testosterone upon proceptivity and
receptivity in ovariectomized common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Kendrick KM, Dixson AF.

The sexual behaviour of eight pairs of marmosets was observed during blocks of 30
minute tests after the ovariectomized female partners were treated with
physiological doses of testosterone, oestradiol and progesterone. The effects of 
an intra-vaginal progesterone treatment were also investigated. Pre-ovulatory
levels of oestradiol significantly increased the females' proceptive and
receptive tongue-flicking displays and reduced the percentage of mounts refused. 
Mid-luteal levels of progesterone, by comparison, virtually abolished proceptive 
and receptive tongue-flicking and significantly increased mount refusals.
Testosterone treatment was without effect. Vaginal application of progesterone
unlike subcutaneous implantation of the hormone did not significantly alter the
females' sexual behaviour. These results indicate that central actions of
oestradiol and progesterone upon proceptivity and receptivity may occur in this
primate, although further research using intra-cranial implants of these steroids
is required to test this hypothesis.

DOI: 10.1016/0031-9384(85)90089-7 
PMID: 4034688  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

