

4627. Anat Embryol (Berl). 1985;172(1):101-13.

Ultrastructure and hydrolase cytochemistry of the developing marmoset yolk sac.

Bremer D, Merker HJ, Gossrau R.

Yolk sacs from Callithrix jacchus were investigated light and electron
microscopically as well as by qualitative light microscopic enzyme histochemistry
on days 35 to 126 of gestation. The thin yolk sac wall of the early stages (day
35-41) consists of the cuboid, endodermal epithelium, the mesothelium of the
exocoelom and some interposed blood vessels. The inner endodermal surface is
rather smooth. At later stages, the epithelium becomes highly prismatic and forms
folds which are lined by a mesenchyme and blood vessels. Microvilli and a small
number of endocytotic vesicles are observed at the apices of the epithelial
cells, which are interconnected by gap junctions, desmosomes and
interdigitations. The cytoplasm of the epithelial cells is characterized by a
well-developed rough endoplasmic reticulum, a large Golgi apparatus and glycogen 
deposits. Four different membrane-bordered types of inclusions can be
distinguished in the cytoplasm of the epithelial cells: The type I and II
inclusions are considered as secretion granules. Their increase and their
localization in the cavities of the endoplasmic reticulum at later stages are
ascribed to an inhibition of the intracellular transport at the onset of
involution. The type III and IV inclusions may represent lysosomes and related
organelles. Bile capillary-like spaces exist between the epithelial cells. The
basement membrane is incomplete below the epithelium and absent around the
capillaries, the endothelium of which is porous in certain areas. Aminopeptidase 
M is highly active in the plasmalemma and the bile capillary-like structures of
the epithelium, dipeptidylpeptidase IV in the mesothelium and alkaline
phosphatase in the blood vessel endothelium. Other membrane hydrolases are
absent. Acid proteases, glycosidases, non-specific phosphatases and non-specific 
esterases can be detected stage-dependently with moderate to high activities in
the yolk sac epithelium. Compared with other organs, the yolk sac structure and
hydrolase equipment are similar to those of the liver and may, therefore, have
similar functions, e.g. synthesis and secretion of proteins. In addition,
however, the yolk sac epithelium might also be involved in resorptive processes
of material from the lumen followed by lysosomal digestion. The Callithrix
jacchus yolk sac starts involution on day 80 of gestation by disintegration of
the cells. On day 100, this process is completed. The stage of involution which
is late in comparison with other primates, e.g. man and Rhesus monkey, is
ascribed to the strongly delayed development of Callithrix jacchus.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00318949 
PMID: 3929647  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4628. Psychopharmacology (Berl). 1985;86(4):438-43.

Effects of ibotenic acid lesions of the basal forebrain on serial reversal
learning in marmosets.

Ridley RM, Baker HF, Drewett B, Johnson JA.

Five common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) received unilateral ibotenic acid
lesions of the basal forebrain. Seven days post-operatively, choline
acetyltransferase activity was reduced by 60% in frontal cortex and 40% in
temporal cortex in the ipsilateral side compared with the contralateral side.
Four animals receiving bilateral lesions of the same area were impaired on the
first post-operative task of serial reversal learning when compared with four
animals receiving bilateral saline injections. Although their performance
improved with time, the lesioned animals were subequently impaired following
administration of a low dose of scopolamine which did not affect the control
group. These results show that lesions within the basal forebrain can affect
cholinergic function in the cortex and impair learning ability.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00427905 
PMID: 3929315  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

