

4628. Psychopharmacology (Berl). 1985;86(4):438-43.

Effects of ibotenic acid lesions of the basal forebrain on serial reversal
learning in marmosets.

Ridley RM, Baker HF, Drewett B, Johnson JA.

Five common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) received unilateral ibotenic acid
lesions of the basal forebrain. Seven days post-operatively, choline
acetyltransferase activity was reduced by 60% in frontal cortex and 40% in
temporal cortex in the ipsilateral side compared with the contralateral side.
Four animals receiving bilateral lesions of the same area were impaired on the
first post-operative task of serial reversal learning when compared with four
animals receiving bilateral saline injections. Although their performance
improved with time, the lesioned animals were subequently impaired following
administration of a low dose of scopolamine which did not affect the control
group. These results show that lesions within the basal forebrain can affect
cholinergic function in the cortex and impair learning ability.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00427905 
PMID: 3929315  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4629. Psychopharmacology (Berl). 1985;86(1-2):125-31.

A conveyor belt task for assessing visuo-motor coordination in the marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus): effects of diazepam, chlorpromazine, pentobarbital and
d-amphetamine.

D'Mello GD, Duffy EA, Miles SS.

A conveyor belt task for assessing visuo-motor coordination in the marmoset is
described. Animals are motivated by apple, a preferred food, under a state of
minimal food deprivation. The apparatus used was designed to test animals within 
their home cages and not restrained in any way, thus avoiding possible
confounding factors associated with restraint stress. Stable baseline levels of
performance were reached by all animals in a median of 24 sessions. Performance
was shown to be differentially sensitive to the effects of four psychoactive
drugs. Moderate doses of diazepam, chlorpromazine and pentobarbital disrupted
visuo-motor coordination in a dose-related manner. The possibility that
disruption of performance observed at higher doses may have resulted from
non-specific actions of these drugs such as decreases in feeding motivation were 
not supported by results from ancillary experiments. Changes in performance
characteristic of high dose effects were similar in nature to changes observed
when the degree of task difficulty was increased. Doses of d-amphetamine up to
and including those reported to produce signs of stereotypy failed to influence
performance. The potential of the conveyor belt task for measuring visuo-motor
coordination in both primate and rodent species is discussed.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00431696 
PMID: 3927349  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

