

4629. Psychopharmacology (Berl). 1985;86(1-2):125-31.

A conveyor belt task for assessing visuo-motor coordination in the marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus): effects of diazepam, chlorpromazine, pentobarbital and
d-amphetamine.

D'Mello GD, Duffy EA, Miles SS.

A conveyor belt task for assessing visuo-motor coordination in the marmoset is
described. Animals are motivated by apple, a preferred food, under a state of
minimal food deprivation. The apparatus used was designed to test animals within 
their home cages and not restrained in any way, thus avoiding possible
confounding factors associated with restraint stress. Stable baseline levels of
performance were reached by all animals in a median of 24 sessions. Performance
was shown to be differentially sensitive to the effects of four psychoactive
drugs. Moderate doses of diazepam, chlorpromazine and pentobarbital disrupted
visuo-motor coordination in a dose-related manner. The possibility that
disruption of performance observed at higher doses may have resulted from
non-specific actions of these drugs such as decreases in feeding motivation were 
not supported by results from ancillary experiments. Changes in performance
characteristic of high dose effects were similar in nature to changes observed
when the degree of task difficulty was increased. Doses of d-amphetamine up to
and including those reported to produce signs of stereotypy failed to influence
performance. The potential of the conveyor belt task for measuring visuo-motor
coordination in both primate and rodent species is discussed.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00431696 
PMID: 3927349  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4630. Ann Nutr Metab. 1985;29(2):83-94.

Changes in fatty acid composition of the cardiac phospholipids of the
cotton-eared marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) after feeding different lipid
supplements.

Charnock JS, McIntosh GH, Abeywardena MY, Russell GR.

After feeding marmosets different lipid supplements for 6 months, the
distribution of phospholipid classes and the fatty acid composition of
phosphatidylcholine (PC), phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) and
diphosphatidylglycerol (DPG) were determined in their cardiac membranes.
Supplementing the diet with linoleic-acid-rich sunflower seed oil raised the
level of 18:2,n-6 in both PC and PE, but did not change the level significantly
in DPG. When 18:2,n-6 was increased, the level of arachidonic acid (20:4,n-6) was
significantly decreased in PC and PE. No arachidonic acid was present in DPG.
Supplementing the diet with mutton fat did not markedly increase the level of
saturated fats, nor did it markedly reduce the level of arachidonic acid in any
phospholipid component. No dietary treatment altered the distribution of the
major phospholipid classes.

DOI: 10.1159/000176965 
PMID: 3922279  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

