

4635. Gastroenterology. 1985 Jan;88(1 Pt 1):20-5.

Colonic mucin composition in primates. Selective alterations associated with
spontaneous colitis in the cotton-top tamarin.

Podolsky DK, Madara JL, King N, Sehgal P, Moore R, Winter HS.

Heterogeneity of colonic mucin glycoprotein was examined in rectal mucosal biopsy
specimens from a variety of primate species (Saguinus oedipus, n = 18; Macaca
mulatta, n = 2; Macaca fascicularis, n = 2; Aotus trivirgatus, n = 2; Saimiri
sciureus, n = 2; and Callithrix jacchus, n = 2). After initial separation of
radiolabeled mucin and nonmucin glycoproteins solubilized from mucosal biopsy
specimens, at least five labeled mucin components were found in monkey rectal
mucosa in contrast to the six mucin fractions observed in the human colon.
Although primates consistently lacked the earliest eluting component present in
human colonic mucin, other mucin components cochromatographed with comparable
fractions previously identified in human colonic biopsy specimens. The relative
proportions of each fraction were consistent throughout all species except the
cotton-top tamarin (S. oedipus), an animal that develops a chronic colitis. The
cotton-top tamarin was found to have a markedly reduced amount of one mucin
component (IV) in a manner analogous to the reduction in a human mucin fraction
previously noted in patients with ulcerative colitis. Sequential evaluation of
mucin profiles in cotton-top tamarins (n = 12) treated with sulfasalazine (50
mg/kg X day) or placebo in a 10-wk double-blind crossover study demonstrated the 
persistence of the selective reduction in tamarin species IV unrelated to disease
activity. In contrast, the relative amount of tamarin mucin III was greater in
association with increased disease activity than that observed in association
with reduced disease activity (46% +/- 11% total mucin vs. 19% +/- 7% total mucin
posttreatment).

DOI: 10.1016/s0016-5085(85)80127-x 
PMID: 3917260  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4636. Braz J Med Biol Res. 1985;18(3):373-9.

Oculomotor areas involved in the parasympathetic control of accommodation and
pupil size in the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Clarke RJ, Coimbra CJ, Alessio ML.

The motoneurons of the oculomotor complex responsible for controlling
accommodation and pupil size of the marmoset were identified by injecting
horseradish peroxidase (HRP) into the ciliary ganglion. The anatomical
organization of accommodation and pupil constrictor motoneurons was determined
using electrical stimulation techniques. HRP-labelled cells were found through
the whole length of the Edinger-Westphal nucleus (EW) and also just ventral to
this nucleus in caudal sections. A projection from the antero-median nucleus to
the ciliary ganglion could not be demonstrated. Electrical stimulation data
showed that currents of less than 1 microampere applied inside the EW evoked
accommodation responses. Pupil constriction responses, on the other hand, were
evoked with weak currents at sites ventral to those in the EW generating
accommodation at caudal and central levels. It was concluded that the EW was
responsible for accommodation and areas containing HRP-labelled cells ventral to 
the caudal part of the EW were responsible for pupil constriction.


PMID: 3835987  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

