

4641. Gastroenterology. 1985 Jan;88(1 Pt 1):13-9.

Characterization of spontaneous colitis in cotton-top tamarins (Saguinus oedipus)
and its response to sulfasalazine.

Madara JL, Podolsky DK, King NW, Sehgal PK, Moore R, Winter HS.

Chronic colitis in the cotton-top tamarin (CTT) has been characterized by
obtaining distal colonic biopsy specimens, hematocrits, serum albumins, and
stools for bacteriologic and parasitic examination in nondebilitated living CTTs.
The species specificity of the histologic features of colitis observed in the CTT
was assessed by obtaining distal colonic biopsy specimens from 10 animals of
other primate species for histologic examination. Histologic evidence of active
colitis was found in 50% of adult CTTs but was absent in all non-CTT species
studied. Forty-two stool samples obtained from 18 CTTs yielded only one isolate
(Campylobacter). In addition to active colitis, CTT rectal mucosa also often had 
subtle irregularities in mucosal structure that were not present in nonrelated
primate species and might represent chronic colitis. Metaplasia was not observed.
The therapeutic effects of oral sulfasalazine (50 mg/kg X day) on CTT colitis
were assessed in a randomized 10-wk placebo controlled crossover study. This
study demonstrated significant improvement in disease activity as judged
histologically (p less than 0.05) and significant increases in animal weight (p
less than 0.01) and serum albumin (p less than 0.01) during sulfasalazine therapy
when compared with saline control. Sulfasalazine therapy can ameliorate the
effects of this disease and offers promise in maintaining experimental colonies
of this endangered species for future studies.

DOI: 10.1016/s0016-5085(85)80126-8 
PMID: 2856876  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4642. J Comp Neurol. 1984 Dec 10;230(3):311-36.

Interhemispheric connections of visual cortex of owl monkeys (Aotus trivirgatus),
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus), and galagos (Galago crassicaudatus).

Cusick CG, Gould HJ 3rd, Kaas JH.

Interhemispheric connections of visual cortex were studied in owl monkeys,
marmosets, and galagos after multiple injections of horseradish peroxidase into
one cerebral hemisphere. Areal patterns of connections were revealed in sections 
of cortex that was flattened and cut parallel to the surface. Results were
related to the locations of known visual areas, especially in owl monkeys, in
which more visual areas have been established. The connection patterns in owl
monkeys and marmosets are very similar, suggesting that the organization of
visual cortex differs little in these two New World simians. Galagos have a
basically similar pattern, but the connections are more widespread. In all three 
primates, connections are not restricted to cortex representing the line of
decussation of the retina, and even striate cortex has connections displaced from
the border. These connections extend up to 2 mm into area 17 in owl monkeys, and 
they are most extensive in galagos, where they form foci that are coextensive
with regions of high cytochrome oxidase activity. Connections are concentrated in
the caudal half of area 18, but protrusions of connections cross of the width of 
the field. The middle temporal visual area (MT) has unevenly distributed
connections throughout, with some increase in density along the border. The
dorsomedial visual area (DM) of owl monkeys has connections restricted to the
rostral border, and a similar region of sparse connections identifies the
probable location of DM in marmosets and galagos. Caudal parts of the
dorsolateral visual area (DL) of owl monkeys have dense interhemispheric
connections. Other visual areas are characterized by unevenly distributed clumps 
of connections, suggesting that functions are not uniformly distributed, and that
semiregular processing modules exist. The results indicate that most extrastriate
visual neurons are subject to interhemispheric influences and support the
conclusion that callosal connections are functionally heterogeneous.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.902300302 
PMID: 6520237  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

