

4643. J Hypertens Suppl. 1984 Dec;2(2):S25-30.

The role of the renin-angiotensin system in blood pressure regulation in
normotensive animals and man.

Corvol P, Michel JB, Evin G, Gardes J, Bensala-Alaoui A, Ménard J.

The role of the renin-angiotensin system in the control of blood pressure in
normal rodents, primates and man has been evaluated using inhibitors which block 
the system at various stages. Renin plays a major role in the maintenance of
blood pressure under volume depletion. In subjects with a normal salt intake, the
contribution of the renin-angiotensin system in maintaining blood pressure levels
can be evaluated using angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors. The
contribution of the renin-angiotensin system can now be evaluated more closely
following the development of new substances which block the renin-angiotensinogen
reaction. Available data strongly suggest that renin contributes to the
maintenance of blood pressure levels in subjects with a normal salt intake,
although to a lesser degree than in subjects on a low sodium intake. The
renin-angiotensin system plays a role in the regulation of blood pressure levels 
in normal experimental animals and man--its importance depending on the state of 
sodium balance.


PMID: 6100873  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4644. J Infect Dis. 1984 Dec;150(6):878-82.

Infectious mononucleosis-like response in common marmosets infected with
Epstein-Barr virus.

Wedderburn N, Edwards JM, Desgranges C, Fontaine C, Cohen B, de Thé G.

Callithrix jacchus marmosets infected with Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) with or
without concurrent treatment with cyclosporin A (CySA) remained healthy. Five
marmosets given virus alone developed lymphocytosis and heterophile antibody.
Antibody to EBV capsid antigens (VCA) appeared and remained at titers of
1:40-1:80 from 15 weeks onward. Two animals produced antibody to the R component 
of early antigens (EA) from six weeks onward. Five CySA-treated EBV-infected
marmosets showed no increase in total lymphocyte counts; only two developed
heterophile antibody. Four developed persistent antibody to the EA-R component.
All developed antibody to VCA, and mean titers were higher than in animals given 
EBV alone. Antibody to VCA also appeared in animals given EBV into Waldeyer's
ring. Because these responses to EBV resemble those of humans, C. jacchus may
provide a useful model for exploring the potential of cofactors in inducing
EBV-associated malignancy.

DOI: 10.1093/infdis/150.6.878 
PMID: 6094675  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

