

466. Neuroscience Research Using Non-human Primate Models and Genome Editing.

Kishi N(4)(5), Okano H(4)(5).
In: Jaenisch R(1), Zhang F(2), Gage F(3), editors. Genome Editing in
Neurosciences [Internet]. Cham (CH): Springer; 2017.
2017 Sep 15.

Author information: 
(1)Whitehead Institute and Department of Biology, Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA
(2)Department of Brain and Cognitive Science, Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard,
Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA
(3)Laboratory of Genetics, Salk Institute for Biological Studies, La Jolla,
California, USA
(4)Laboratory for Marmoset Neural Architecture, RIKEN Brain Science Institute,
2-1 Hirosawa, Wako-shi, Saitama, 351-0198, Japan
(5)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, 35 Shinanomachi,
Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo, 160-8582, Japan

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is a small New World non-human primate
indigenous to northeastern Brazil. This species has been attracting the attention
of biomedical researchers and neuroscientists for its ease of handling and colony
maintenance, unique behavioral characteristics, and several human-like traits,
such as enriched social vocal communication and strong relationships between
parents and offspring. Its high reproductive efficiency makes it particularly
amenable for use in the development of transgenic and genome editing technologies
in a non-human primate model. Our group has recently generated transgenic
marmosets with germ line transmission, opening new avenues in primate research.
In this chapter, we describe recent advances in neuroscience and disease research
using common marmosets, and we outline potential uses of genome editing in
non-human primates toward the development of knock-in/knock-out marmosets.

PMID: 31314447 


467. Elife. 2019 Jul 16;8. pii: e41853. doi: 10.7554/eLife.41853.

Vocal and locomotor coordination develops in association with the autonomic
nervous system.

Gustison ML(1), Borjon JI(1)(2), Takahashi DY(1)(2), Ghazanfar AA(1)(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Princeton Neuroscience Institute, Princeton University, Princeton, United
States.
(2)Department of Psychology, Princeton University, Princeton, United States.
(3)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Princeton University,
Princeton, United States.

In adult animals, movement and vocalizations are coordinated, sometimes
facilitating, and at other times inhibiting, each other. What is missing is how
these different domains of motor control become coordinated over the course of
development. We investigated how postural-locomotor behaviors may influence vocal
development, and the role played by physiological arousal during their
interactions. Using infant marmoset monkeys, we densely sampled vocal, postural
and locomotor behaviors and estimated arousal fluctuations from
electrocardiographic measures of heart rate. We found that vocalizations matured 
sooner than postural and locomotor skills, and that vocal-locomotor coordination 
improved with age and during elevated arousal levels. These results suggest that 
postural-locomotor maturity is not required for vocal development to occur, and
that infants gradually improve coordination between vocalizations and body
movement through a process that may be facilitated by arousal level changes.

© 2019, Gustison et al.

DOI: 10.7554/eLife.41853 
PMCID: PMC6684270
PMID: 31310236  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: MG, JB, DT, AG No competing interests declared

