

4661. Acta Virol. 1984 Jul;28(4):277-81.

Nasal and intrathalamic inoculations of primates with Tacaribe virus: protection 
against Argentine hemorrhagic fever and absence of neurovirulence.

Samoilovich SR, Pecci Saavedra J, Frigerio MJ, Weissenbacher MC.

Callithrix jacchus marmosets were inoculated by different routes with two stocks 
of Tacaribe virus, one from suckling mouse brain and another from human diploid
MRC5 cells. All 12 primates inoculated by nasal route developed neutralizing
serum antibodies without any clinical signs. All 6 primates receiving the mouse
brain-Tacaribe virus were protected against lethal challenge with pathogenic XJ
strain of Junin virus, while protection was also conferred in 4 out of 6 primates
receiving the diploid cell-Tacaribe virus stock. Intramuscular (i.m.) inoculation
also elicited antibodies and conferred protection to 4 primates receiving the
diploid cell-virus stock. Intrathalamic (i.t.) inoculation of mouse brain-virus
stock caused no clinical signs or histopathologic changes in groups of 3 primates
each examined on days 33 and 90 post-infection (p.i.). All primates developed
antibody response, but no virus could be detected in their brain. Thus, Tacaribe 
virus proved harmless and immunogenic in Callithrix jacchus and protected most
marmosets against challenge with the lethal XJ strain of Junin virus.


PMID: 6148851  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4662. Lab Anim. 1984 Jul;18(3):275-9.

Effects of fibre on digestibility and passage time in callithricidae.

Krombach F, Flurer C, Zucker H.

The effects of fibre in a pelleted diet on food intake, digestibility of crude
fibre, dry matter and energy, on passage time and consistency of faeces were
studied in 2 species of Callithricidae, Callithrix jacchus and Saguinus
fuscicollis. Coarse cellulose, microcellulose, wheat bran and shrimp meal (chitin
= crude fibre) were tested in diets containing 2,4 and 6% total crude fibre,
respectively. Digestibility and passage time were determined by inclusion of 0.5%
Cr2O3 in the diet. Both celluloses had little influence on the digestibility of
energy and dry matter. Digestibility of crude fibre was very low. Wheat bran led 
to evident depression of energy and dry matter digestibility. High digestibility 
of crude fibre occurred at the higher levels of inclusion in the diet. Shrimp
meal was highly digested with little influence on digestibility of energy and dry
matter, indicating considerable degradation of chitin. Wheat bran showed a marked
effect, while microcellulose had no effect on passage time, consistency and
volume of faeces.

DOI: 10.1258/002367784780958240 
PMID: 6087023  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

