

4679. Dev Psychobiol. 1984 Mar;17(2):191-208.

Correlations among measures of playfulness and skillfulness in captive common
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus jacchus).

Chalmers NR, Locke-Haydon J.

Infant sensorimotor and social skills, playfulness, and nonplayful behaviors were
measured in common marmosets from 6 to 22 weeks old. Different measures of skill 
showed a low concordance, implying that skill is a multiple rather than unitary
attribute. Significant correlations were found between the amount of social play 
infants performed from 11 to 13 weeks of age and their performance at 14 weeks in
(1) competitive food tests with their mothers, and in (2) their ability to
negotiate an obstacle for a food reward. Significant correlations were also found
between these skills and nonplayful behaviors, however. Comparable analyses at
other ages revealed few significant correlations, suggesting that the association
between social play and skills is restricted to the age when infants are rapidly 
becoming independent of their caregivers both for locomotion and food.
Age-specific correlations occurred between changes in levels of skills and both
playful and nonplay behaviors. Our results are consistent with the hypothesis
that social play promotes the development of skills, but alternative explanations
are possible.

DOI: 10.1002/dev.420170209 
PMID: 6423428  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4680. J Anat. 1984 Mar;138 ( Pt 2):227-35.

The structure and epididymal maturation of the spermatozoon of the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Moore HD, Hartman TD, Holt WV.

Maturation of the spermatozoon of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) during
epididymal transit was investigated using light and electron microscopy. Except
for the caudal migration of the cytoplasmic droplet there were no apparent
ultrastructural modifications, although interesting morphological features of the
sperm head were observed such as the substructure of the acrosome and a waist at 
the equatorial region. Alteration to the plasmalemma during maturation was
reflected by an increasing capacity of the sperm surface to bind wheat germ
agglutinin (recognising n-acetyl-d-glucosamine) but not ricin communis or
concanavalin agglutinins. This change was concomitant with the development of
sperm fertilising capacity in this species.


PMCID: PMC1164063
PMID: 6325376  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

