

469. Behav Processes. 2019 Sep;166:103897. doi: 10.1016/j.beproc.2019.103897. Epub
2019 Jul 2.

Nonhuman primate welfare: Can there be a relationship between personality,
lateralization and physiological indicators?

Fernández-Lázaro G(1), Latorre R(2), Alonso-García E(3), Barja Núñez I(4).

Author information: 
(1)Friends of Thoreau Program, Instituto Franklin, Universidad de Alcalá,
Trinidad 1, 28801, Alcalá de Henares, Madrid, Spain. Electronic address:
gloria.fernandez@institutofranklin.net.
(2)Grupo de Neurocomputación Biológica, Departamento de Ingeniería Informática,
Universidad Autónoma de Madrid, 28049, Madrid, Spain.
(3)Friends of Thoreau Program, Instituto Franklin, Universidad de Alcalá,
Trinidad 1, 28801, Alcalá de Henares, Madrid, Spain.
(4)Departamento de Biología, Unidad de Zoología, Universidad Autónoma de Madrid, 
c/Darwin 2, Campus Universitario de Cantoblanco, 28049, Madrid, Spain; Centro de 
Investigación en Biodiversidad y Cambio Global (CIBC-UAM), Universidad Autónoma
de Madrid, C/ Darwin 2, 28049 Madrid, Spain.

Measuring personality is being used to improved nonhuman primate welfare. To
expand its use, it is important to identify traits that are shared between
species and that measures are reliable, easy to use and less time consuming.
Combining personality and other indicators strong validation of the results can
be obtained. In the present study, we sought to determine if there is a link
between physiological stress response (fecal cortisol metabolites), personality
(ratings made by animal keepers and reaction to novel objects) and lateralization
of the brain (hand preferences) on eight species of nonhuman primates: Callithrix
jacchus, Callithrix geoffroyi, Cebuella Pygmaea, Saguinus imperator, Saguinus
oedipus, Leontopithecus rosalia, Pithecia pithecia and Nycticebus pygmaeus.
Personality assessments achieved good levels of interrater reliability and
revealed three components of personality in our sample: fearfulness, activeness
and aggressiveness. More exploratory individuals were more active, aggressive and
showed higher cortisol metabolite levels. Right-handed subjects inspected novel
objects sooner and the strength of the lateralization was linked with individual 
stress and the aggressiveness component. Our results highlight that there is a
relation between personality, lateralization and physiological indicators in
nonhuman primates, but although some aspects can be generalized across species
and/or sexes others are species/sex dependent.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.beproc.2019.103897 
PMID: 31271769  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


470. J Toxicol Sci. 2019;44(7):441-457. doi: 10.2131/jts.44.441.

Telemetered common marmosets is useful for the assessment of electrocardiogram
parameters changes induced by multiple cardiac ion channel inhibitors.

Watanabe K(1)(2), Tsubouchi T(1), Yamada T(1), Hinoi E(2), Miyawaki I(1).

Author information: 
(1)Preclinical Research Unit, Sumitomo Dainippon Pharma Co., Ltd.
(2)Laboratory of Molecular Pharmacology, Division of Pharmaceutical Sciences,
Kanazawa University Graduate School.

The objective of this study is to assess the response of telemetered common
marmosets to multiple cardiac ion channel inhibitors and to clarify the
usefulness of this animal model in evaluating the effects of drug candidates on
electrocardiogram (ECG). Six multiple cardiac ion channel inhibitors (sotalol,
astemizole, flecainide, quinidine, verapamil and terfenadine) were orally
administered to telemetered common marmosets and changes in QTc, PR interval and 
QRS duration were evaluated. Drugs plasma levels were determined to compare the
sensitivity in common marmosets to that in humans. QTc prolongation was observed 
in the marmosets dosed with sotalol, astemizole, flecainide, quinidine, verapamil
and terfenadine. PR prolongation was noted after flecainide and verapamil
administration, and QRS widening occurred following treatment with flecainide and
quinidine. Drugs plasma levels associated with ECG changes in marmosets were
similar to those in humans, except for verapamil-induced QTc prolongation.
Verapamil-induced change is suggested due to body temperature decrease. These
results indicate that telemetered common marmoset is a useful animal for
evaluation of the ECG effects of multiple cardiac ion channel inhibitors and the 
influence of body temperature change should be considered in the assessment.

DOI: 10.2131/jts.44.441 
PMID: 31270301  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

