

4698. Clin Chem. 1984 Jan;30(1):101-4.

Stabilities of some constituents of marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) plasma under
various conditions of storage.

Davy CW, Jackson MR, Walker JM.

The stability of various marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) plasma constituents was
investigated after storage at room temperature, 4 degrees C, and -20 degrees C.
The method of sequential analysis ensured that the between-run bias of the
methods of analysis used was drastically reduced, and the definitions of
stability were linked to the imprecision of these methods. Optimal conditions for
storage for as long as 48 h depended on the analyte being measured. Room
temperature was optimal for cholinesterase and acetylcholinesterase; 4 degrees C 
for protein, albumin, alanine aminotransferase, isocitrate dehydrogenase,
sorbitol dehydrogenase, lactate dehydrogenase, and glutamate dehydrogenase; and
-20 degrees C for glutathione reductase and alkaline phosphatase. For aspartate
amino-transferase and gamma-glutamyltransferase, either 4 degrees C or -20
degrees C would be suitable. Reasons are advanced for some conflicting reports in
the published work, and we emphasize the need to investigate each analyte and
species separately.


PMID: 6418408  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4699. Anat Embryol (Berl). 1984;169(2):111-8.

The second, intralaminar thalamo-cortical projection system.

Brysch I, Brysch W, Creutzfeldt O, Hayes NL, Schlingensiepen KH.

In the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), HRP and 3H-apo-HRP were injected into
various cortical regions and the positions of labelled neurons in the
non-specific, intralaminar thalamic nuclei (N. centralis and centre m edian )
were investigated. Although neuron populations projecting to the different
cortical regions overlap widely, a coarse topology exists inasmuch as
intralaminar neurons projecting to the posterior cortex were located more
rostrally and those projecting to the anterior cortex were located more caudally 
in the intralaminar complex. With injections into nearby cortical regions of the 
parieto-temporal association cortex with HRP and 3H-apo-HRP, respectively, no
double labelled cells were found in the intralaminar nuclei, although the fields 
of labelled cells completely overlapped. Also in the specific projection nuclei
no double labelled cells were encountered. About 10-20% of the thalamo-cortical
projection cells are located in the intralaminar nuclei. Some functional aspects 
of this second thalamo-cortical projection system are discussed.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00303139 
PMID: 6331230  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

