

4703. J Med Primatol. 1984;13(1):41-8.

Presence of pH2-sensitive circulating interferon among Callithrix jacchus
marmosets.

Rhodes-Feuillette A, Mahouy G, Bellosguardo M, Gouget-Zalc C, Périès J.

Significant and relatively stable levels of serum-interferon were demonstrated in
a Callithrix jacchus population. This circulating interferon was acid-sensitive
in all cases, classifying it as immune or "gamma-type" interferon. Our results in
these hematopoietic chimeras suggest that the presence of immune-type or at least
pH 2-sensitive interferon could be related to the presence of two allogenic
lymphocyte populations in each marmoset.


PMID: 6094815  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4704. J Med Virol. 1984;14(1):1-8.

Monoclonal antibodies to hepatitis A virus.

Dawson GJ, Decker RH, Norton DK, Bryce WH, Whittington RO, Tribby II, Mushahwar
IK.

This paper describes the development of monoclonal antibodies generated against
hepatitis A virus (HAV). Monoclonal antibodies (MCABs) from two murine hybridoma 
cell lines were found to bind to an epitope recognized in the sera of patients
recovering from infection with HAV. Ascites fluids containing MCABs from one
hybridoma (H1 C19) inhibited a maximum of 70% of the 125I-labeled polyclonal
human anti-HAV from binding to HAV-antigen in a competitive radioimmunoassay,
indicating that the MCAB recognizes a major epitope of HAV. Monoclonal anti-HAV
that was coated onto polystyrene beads was as effective as polyclonal antibodies 
in capturing HAV antigen from extracts of human feces, marmoset liver, and
cultured cells. Radiolabeled MCAB was used to screen sera for anti-HAV. A
collection of 117 sera was tested for total anti-HAV by competitive
radioimmunoassay utilizing either 125I-labeled human polyclonal or mouse
monoclonal antibody. Thirty-four specimens were similarly reactive by both
systems, while the remainder were negative. Likewise, 28 specimens were similarly
positive for IgM anti-HAV, and 12 specimens were negative using each of the two
labeled antibodies. The data show that anti-HAV induced during disease is
directed against a common major epitope of HAV and that MC anti-HAV can be used
effectively as a reagent to detect these antibodies.

DOI: 10.1002/jmv.1890140102 
PMID: 6086829  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

