

4706. J Am Vet Med Assoc. 1983 Dec 1;183(11):1252-4.

Detection and control of rotavirus infections in zoo animals.

Baumeister BM, Castro AE, McGuire-Rodgers SJ, Ramsay EC.

Fecal specimens from 15 exotic animal species, with and without diarrhea, were
examined for the presence of rotavirus, bacterial enteropathogens, and intestinal
parasites. A commercial enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay was used to detect
antigens of rotavirus. Rotavirus was detected in the feces of 20 (57%) of 35 of
the animals, which included addax (Addax nasomaculatus), nyala (Tragelaphus
angasi), saiga (Saiga tatarica), white-tailed gnu (Connochaetus gnou), greater
kudu (Tragelaphus strepsiceros), sitatunga (Tragelaphus spekei), Grant's gazelle 
(Gazella granti roosevelti), sable antelope (Hippotragus niger niger), kob (Kobus
kob leucotis), pygmy marmoset (Callithrix pygmaea), bush dog (Speothos
venaticus), grizzly bear (Ursus arctos horribilis), and red kangaroo (Megaleia
rufa). Bacterial pathogens were found in 8 animals, 5 of which had concurrent
rotavirus infections. Most (60%) of the animals with rotavirus infection were
less than 2 weeks old; however, rotavirus also was detected in feces from adult
animals. Although most of the cases of rotavirus infection were detected in
nursery-reared animals, exhibit-reared animals also were infected with rotavirus.


PMID: 6315660  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4707. J Reprod Fertil. 1983 Nov;69(2):613-21.

Relationship between ovarian and placental steroid production during early
pregnancy in the marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus).

Hodges JK, Henderson C, Hearn JP.

Concentrations of progesterone, 17 alpha-hydroxyprogesterone, oestrone and
oestradiol-17 beta in peripheral and utero-ovarian vein blood were measured
during the first 60 days of pregnancy. The same hormones were also measured in
peripheral blood samples from non-fertile cycles. Peripheral levels of 17
alpha-hydroxyprogesterone, oestrone and oestradiol increased gradually during
early pregnancy whereas concentrations of progesterone declined. The patterns of 
secretion of progesterone, 17 alpha-hydroxyprogesterone and oestrone, but not
oestradiol, were significantly different in fertile and non-fertile cycles by 15 
days after ovulation. Comparison of hormone values in peripheral and
utero-ovarian vein samples from ovaries with and without corpora lutea (Days 7,
9, 13, 21, 40 and 60 of pregnancy) showed that: (a) progesterone was secreted by 
the corpus luteum until at least Day 40 by which time there was also placental
secretion; (2) although 17 alpha-hydroxyprogesterone was secreted by the corpus
luteum, the relative contribution of luteal and placental secretion after Day 21 
was not clear; (3) oestrone secretion by the corpus luteum was no longer
detectable by Day 40, but placental oestrone secretion appeared to be present by 
this time; (4) the corpus luteum did not secrete significant amounts of
oestradiol at any stage of early pregnancy, although there was evidence for
placental secretion by Day 40. These results suggest that progesterone secretion 
by the corpus luteum of early pregnancy continues beyond the time when oestrogen 
secretion has declined. The corpus luteum to placental shift in the marmoset
appears to occur at a later stage of pregnancy than it does in the macaque monkey
and probably also in man.

DOI: 10.1530/jrf.0.0690613 
PMID: 6415278  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

