

4717. Psychol Med. 1983 Aug;13(3):499-511.

An investigation of the effects of intracerebral injection in the marmoset of
cytopathic cerebrospinal fluid from patients with schizophrenia or neurological
disease.

Baker HF, Ridley RM, Crow TJ, Bloxham CA, Parry RP, Tyrrell DA.

In experiments designed to investigate transmission, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF)
from patients with schizophrenia and neurological disease (huntington's chorea
and multiple sclerosis) which had been found to induce cytopathic effects in
human embryonic fibroblast cell culture was injected intracerebrally into mice,
hamsters and marmosets (small New World primates). No evidence was obtained of
transmission to mice or hamsters. A total of 15 marmosets (Callithrix jacchus)
was injected intracerebrally with CSF [8 with samples from 4 patients with
schizophrenia. 3 with samples from patients with neurological disease (2 with
Huntington's chorea and 1 with multiple sclerosis) and 4 with samples from 3
patients without neurological or psychiatric disease] and was observed over a
period of 2 1/2 years. Analysis of variance on data obtained from behavioral
observations averaged over 6-month periods revealed that animals injected with
CSF from patients with schizophrenia and neurological disease became
progressively more inactive when compared with animals injected with CSF from
control patients. The change detected by behavioural observation was confirmed as
a difference 2 and 2 1/2 years after injection by automated activity monitoring. 
There was an incidence of reproductive anomalies (including two occipital
encephalocoeles) in the females in the experimental group, but the numbers are
too small to draw firm conclusions from this observation. Many reported
differences in biological samples from schizophrenic patients and normal controls
have subsequently been found to be due to factors unrelated to the disease state.
This may prove to be the case with the changes observed in this experiment.
Nevertheless, the fact that marmosets injected with CSF from patients suffering
from neuropsychiatric disease, including schizophrenia, subsequently differed in 
their behaviour from those injected with control CSF warrants further
investigation.

DOI: 10.1017/s0033291700047930 
PMID: 6226054  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4718. J Pathol. 1983 Jun;140(2):77-90.

Ultrastructure of pulmonary alveoli and macrophages in experimental Legionnaires'
disease.

Baskerville A, Dowsett AB, Fitzgeorge RB, Hambleton P, Broster M.

Guinea pigs, rhesus monkeys and marmosets infected with Legionella pneumophila in
small particle aerosols developed an acute fibrinopurulent bronchopneumonia.
Changes from 24 hr included exudation into alveoli of protein-rich, often
fibrinous fluid and many polymorphonuclear leucocytes (PMN) and macrophages.
Damage to alveolar capillary endothelium consisted of widespread cytoplasmic
swelling and vesiculation, but necrosis of endothelium and the associated
alveolar epithelium was focal and less common. Phagocytosis of L. pneumophila
organisms was predominantly by macrophages, but the bacteria were also seen in
PMN. Free organisms were present in alveoli and capillary lumina at all stages of
the infection but were not observed in lung parenchymal cells. Some infected
macrophages and PMN became necrotic and lysed to release intact bacteria. In all 
species of experimental animal, intracytoplasmic aggregations of granular
material, believed to be glycogen, were seen frequently in macrophages and PMN
which had phagocytosed L. pneumophila. These deposits of glycogen may reflect
either an increased energy demand by the host cell or an interference with its
carbohydrate metabolism.

DOI: 10.1002/path.1711400202 
PMID: 6854436  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

