

4718. J Pathol. 1983 Jun;140(2):77-90.

Ultrastructure of pulmonary alveoli and macrophages in experimental Legionnaires'
disease.

Baskerville A, Dowsett AB, Fitzgeorge RB, Hambleton P, Broster M.

Guinea pigs, rhesus monkeys and marmosets infected with Legionella pneumophila in
small particle aerosols developed an acute fibrinopurulent bronchopneumonia.
Changes from 24 hr included exudation into alveoli of protein-rich, often
fibrinous fluid and many polymorphonuclear leucocytes (PMN) and macrophages.
Damage to alveolar capillary endothelium consisted of widespread cytoplasmic
swelling and vesiculation, but necrosis of endothelium and the associated
alveolar epithelium was focal and less common. Phagocytosis of L. pneumophila
organisms was predominantly by macrophages, but the bacteria were also seen in
PMN. Free organisms were present in alveoli and capillary lumina at all stages of
the infection but were not observed in lung parenchymal cells. Some infected
macrophages and PMN became necrotic and lysed to release intact bacteria. In all 
species of experimental animal, intracytoplasmic aggregations of granular
material, believed to be glycogen, were seen frequently in macrophages and PMN
which had phagocytosed L. pneumophila. These deposits of glycogen may reflect
either an increased energy demand by the host cell or an interference with its
carbohydrate metabolism.

DOI: 10.1002/path.1711400202 
PMID: 6854436  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4719. Lab Anim Sci. 1983 Jun;33(3):264-7.

Evaluation of a pelleted diet in a colony of marmosets and tamarins.

Flurer C, Scheid R, Zucker H.

By offering various pelleted diet modifications to five species of
Callitrichidae, a palatable 24% protein diet was developed. The animals received 
limited fruit supplement, and families received an additional meal of commercial 
baby food. The pellets supplied approximately 75% of dietary energy and 95% of
total protein. In 15 months on this regimen, mortality dropped drastically and
fertility improved. No signs of a nutritional deficiency were observed. It was
concluded that the nutrient levels of this diet were adequate or above actual
requirements.


PMID: 6410116  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

