

4720. Physiol Behav. 1983 May;30(5):735-42.

The effect of the ovarian cycle on the sexual behaviour of the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus).

Kendrick KM, Dixson AF.

The sexual behaviour of 7 pairs of marmosets was observed during 30 minute tests 
for 44-68 days and blood samples were collected from females for measurement of
plasma progesterone, testosterone and oestrone. Copulations occurred throughout
the ovarian cycle of 24-30 days. Females used a "tongue-flicking" display both as
an invitational behaviour (proceptive tongue-flicks) and during copulation
(receptive tongue-flicks) most frequently during the peri-ovulatory period.
Frequencies of proceptivity were correlated positively with high mean levels of
testosterone and oestrone during the cycle and with a short follicular phase.
Males showed significant increases in tongue-flicks, mounts and ejaculations
during the peri-ovulatory phase, together with a shortened post-ejaculatory
interval and increased duration of penile erection after ejaculation. A
retrospective analysis showed that these changes in the males' behaviour occurred
only during tests where females were proceptive and not during other tests in the
peri-ovulatory period. Females refused significantly more of the males' mounting 
attempts during the luteal phase and a corresponding reduction in mount frequency
occurred at this time. Grooming, scent-marking, olfactory inspections and some
other behaviours did not alter significantly in either sex during the ovarian
cycle.

DOI: 10.1016/0031-9384(83)90171-3 
PMID: 6683847  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4721. Pharmacol Biochem Behav. 1983 May;18(5):701-4.

Further consideration of the learning impairment after aceperone in the marmoset:
effects of the drug on shape and colour discrimination and on an alternation
task.

Baker HF, Ridley RM, Haystead TA, Crow TJ.

Ten marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) learned to discriminate between pairs of small
grey objects differing only in shape or small plain plaques differing only in
colour, in a Wisconsin General Test Apparatus. Each day, each animal was
presented with three consecutive visual discrimination problems in the order
shape-colour-shape or colour-shape-colour. After aceperone, an
alpha-noradrenergic antagonist, animals were impaired at learning the first but
not the subsequent tasks of each trio. These results suggest that the previously 
observed impairment [10] on the first of a pair of object discrimination tasks
after aceperone is a consequence of disruption of a mechanism common to both
shape and colour discrimination learning. The fact that there is no impairment on
task 2 in a dimension differing from task 1 suggests that the deficit is not one 
of attending to, or switching attention to, the appropriate visual dimension.
Three further marmosets were trained to perform an alternation task and tested
under aceperone. No impairment in performance was seen, suggesting that a variety
of cognitive skills other than stimulus-reward association were intact. We
conclude that the impairment following aceperone is a dysfunction of processes
involved in association formation, but that it is one which is manifest only when
the animal is faced with a type of task which has not recently been performed and
that it can be overcome with persistence even the animal encounters novel
stimuli.

DOI: 10.1016/0091-3057(83)90009-6 
PMID: 6222386  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

