

473. Yakugaku Zasshi. 2019;139(7):1007-1013. doi: 10.1248/yakushi.18-00165-4.

[Prion-like Propagation of Pathological α-Synuclein in Vivo].

[Article in Japanese]

Masuda-Suzukake M(1), Hasegawa M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dementia Research Project, Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of Medical Science.

α-Synuclein (αS) is the major component of the filamentous inclusions that
constitute the defining characteristic of neurodegenerative synucleinopathies,
including Parkinson's disease, dementia with Lewy bodies, and multiple system
atrophy. αS is deposited in a hyperphosphorylated and ubiquitinated form with a
β-sheet-rich fibrillar structure in diseased brains. In 2008, some researchers
reported that embryonic neurons transplanted into Parkinson's disease brains had 
Lewy body-like pathologies, suggesting that pathological αS propagates from
diseased neurons to young neurons. Subsequently, a growing body of evidence
supported the cell-to-cell spread of αS pathologies. Recent studies have revealed
that intracerebral injection of insoluble αS into wild-type mice can induce
prion-like propagation of phosphorylated αS pathology even 1 month after
injection, while injection into αS-knockout mice failed to induce any pathology. 
We also showed that intracerebral injection of insoluble αS into adult common
marmoset brains results in the spreading of abundant αS pathology. These in vivo 
experiments clearly indicate that insoluble αS has prion-like properties and that
it propagates through neural networks. The underlying mechanisms of αS
propagation are still poorly understood, but αS propagation model animals could
be helpful in elucidating the pathogenetic mechanisms and developing drugs for
synucleinopathies.

DOI: 10.1248/yakushi.18-00165-4 
PMID: 31257247  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


474. Anat Rec (Hoboken). 2019 Nov;302(11):1891-1900. doi: 10.1002/ar.24212. Epub 2019 
Jul 12.

Visualization and Quantification of Digitally Dissected Muscle Fascicles in the
Masticatory Muscles of Callithrix jacchus Using Nondestructive DiceCT.

Dickinson E(1), Basham C(2), Rana A(3), Hartstone-Rose A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, North Carolina State University, Raleigh,
North Carolina.
(2)Department of Mechanical, Aerospace, and Biomedical Engineering, University of
Tennessee, Knoxville, Tennessee.
(3)Stryker Orthopaedics, Kalamazoo, Michigan.

The organization and length of a muscle's fascicles imparts its contractile
properties. Longer fascicles permit increased muscle excursion, whereas changes
in fascicle orientation relate to the overall vector of contractile force.
Collecting data on fascicle architecture has traditionally involved destructive
and irreversible gross dissection. In recent years, however, new imaging
modalities have permitted muscles and their fascicles to be visualized
nondestructively. Here, we present data from a primate (Callithrix jacchus), in
which, for the first time, individual muscle fascicles are digitally "dissected" 
(segmented and reconstructed) using nondestructive, high-resolution diffusible
iodine-based contrast-enhanced computed tomography (DiceCT) techniques. We also
present quantitative data on the length and orientation of these fascicles within
10 muscle divisions of the jaw adductor and abductor musculature (superficial,
deep, and zygomatic portions of temporalis and masseter; medial and lateral
pterygoid; anterior and posterior digastric) and compare these digitally measured
lengths to fascicular lengths measured using traditional gross and chemical
dissection. Digitally derived fascicle lengths correspond well to their
dissection-derived counterparts. Moreover, our analyses of changes in fascicle
orientation across the adductor complex enable us to visualize previously
uncharacterized levels of detail and highlight significant variation between
adjacent muscle layers within muscle groups (e.g., between superficial, deep, and
zygomatic portions of masseter and temporalis). We conclude that this technique
offers great potential to future research, particularly for questions centered
around the visualization and quantification of obscured and often-overlooked
muscles such as the pterygoid and digastric muscles, and for deriving more
accurate models of the masticatory system as a whole. Anat Rec, 302:1891-1900,
2019. © 2019 American Association for Anatomy.

© 2019 American Association for Anatomy.

DOI: 10.1002/ar.24212 
PMID: 31251450  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

