

4732. Gegenbaurs Morphol Jahrb. 1983;129(6):783-98.

[Reissner's fiber in the central canal of primate spinal cord].

[Article in German]

Erhardt H, Meinel W.

The Reissner's fibre (RF) in the canalis centralis of the spinal cord was studied
with the aid of transmission and scanning electron microscope in Tupaia, Cebus,
Sarmiri, Macaca, Alouatta, Ateles, Callithrix and Callicebus. The RF of the
primates is structurally not different from the corresponding structure of other 
chordates. The diameter of the RF is slightly increasing in the canalis
direction. The increase of the diameter varies between 2 and 5 micron. It is
assumed that the increase is brought about by the inclusion of cell debris into
the fibre. Material which definitely does not belong to the RF is found in the
cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of the canalis centralis and occasionally it adheres to
the surface of the fibre. This material appears either as amorphous flocculent
substances, the granulation of which differs in both density and size of the
granula or as vesicles. If the material makes contact with the RF, a
membrane-like structure may appear which is a condensation restricted to the area
of the contact between material of different viscosity and granulation. The
origin of this variable material is still not clarified. According to our
observations, it is probably sequestrated material from ependymal cells. It is
not a secretion as sometimes assumed since the intracellular processes of the
synthesis of the secretion have not been observed.


PMID: 6674014  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4733. Folia Primatol (Basel). 1983;41(3-4):277-303.

Morphology of the interorbital region of Saimiri sciureus.

Maier W.

The skull of the platyrrhine primate Saimiri sciureus is distinguished by a large
interorbital fenestra. Juvenile skulls still show a bony interorbital septum with
some small gaps. A morphogenetic study was undertaken to better understand the
structures of the interorbital region, which represents a linkage between the
base of the braincase and the nasal skeleton. Already in early ontogenetic stages
a reduction of the posterior portion of the nasal capsule and of the
cartilaginous interorbital septum are observed, resulting in the formation of a
primary interorbital fenestra. A bony interorbital septum is mainly formed in
perinatal age stages by ossification of the presphenoid and by medial fusion of
the frontals; the primary interorbital fenestra is retained as a small opening.
It only occurs in late juvenile stages when the definitive interorbital fenestra 
develops by by secondary transformation of bone into a membrane of dense
connective tissue; this process is most probably caused by mechanical friction of
the very closely approximated eyes of both sides.

DOI: 10.1159/000156137 
PMID: 6671631  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

