

4733. Folia Primatol (Basel). 1983;41(3-4):277-303.

Morphology of the interorbital region of Saimiri sciureus.

Maier W.

The skull of the platyrrhine primate Saimiri sciureus is distinguished by a large
interorbital fenestra. Juvenile skulls still show a bony interorbital septum with
some small gaps. A morphogenetic study was undertaken to better understand the
structures of the interorbital region, which represents a linkage between the
base of the braincase and the nasal skeleton. Already in early ontogenetic stages
a reduction of the posterior portion of the nasal capsule and of the
cartilaginous interorbital septum are observed, resulting in the formation of a
primary interorbital fenestra. A bony interorbital septum is mainly formed in
perinatal age stages by ossification of the presphenoid and by medial fusion of
the frontals; the primary interorbital fenestra is retained as a small opening.
It only occurs in late juvenile stages when the definitive interorbital fenestra 
develops by by secondary transformation of bone into a membrane of dense
connective tissue; this process is most probably caused by mechanical friction of
the very closely approximated eyes of both sides.

DOI: 10.1159/000156137 
PMID: 6671631  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4734. Rheumatol Int. 1983;3(2):69-74.

Investigations into the induction of chronic experimental arthritis in the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Hunneyball IM.

In an attempt to produce a superior model of rheumatoid arthritis, experiments
have been performed to investigate the ease of induction of experimental
arthritis in marmosets by immunological means. Marmosets were sensitised with the
following combinations of antigen and adjuvant: ovalbumin in Freund's complete
adjuvant (FCA), ovalbumin in FCA + Bordetella pertussis, methylated-BSA in FCA + 
B. pertussis or human fibrin in FCA + B. pertussis, and subsequently injected
with the corresponding antigen in saline into one knee joint. Animals receiving
ovalbumin, with or without B. pertussis, produced only a weak transient
monoarticular synovitis. Animals receiving Met-BSA + B. pertussis produced a
chronic synovitis but only mild erosive changes were apparent even 21 weeks after
intraarticular injection. Animals receiving human fibrin produced a transient
monoarticular synovitis of moderate intensity. These results indicate that the
marmoset offers no obvious advantages over the rabbit for the induction of
experimental rheumatoid arthritis.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00541147 
PMID: 6622924  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

