

4734. Rheumatol Int. 1983;3(2):69-74.

Investigations into the induction of chronic experimental arthritis in the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Hunneyball IM.

In an attempt to produce a superior model of rheumatoid arthritis, experiments
have been performed to investigate the ease of induction of experimental
arthritis in marmosets by immunological means. Marmosets were sensitised with the
following combinations of antigen and adjuvant: ovalbumin in Freund's complete
adjuvant (FCA), ovalbumin in FCA + Bordetella pertussis, methylated-BSA in FCA + 
B. pertussis or human fibrin in FCA + B. pertussis, and subsequently injected
with the corresponding antigen in saline into one knee joint. Animals receiving
ovalbumin, with or without B. pertussis, produced only a weak transient
monoarticular synovitis. Animals receiving Met-BSA + B. pertussis produced a
chronic synovitis but only mild erosive changes were apparent even 21 weeks after
intraarticular injection. Animals receiving human fibrin produced a transient
monoarticular synovitis of moderate intensity. These results indicate that the
marmoset offers no obvious advantages over the rabbit for the induction of
experimental rheumatoid arthritis.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00541147 
PMID: 6622924  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4735. J Med Primatol. 1983;12(4):201-8.

A comparison of craniofacial growth between two colonies of marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus).

Townsend GC, White J, Goss AN.

General and craniofacial measurements from young marmosets in a recently
established Australian colony are presented and compared with similar data
published for a long-established colony in the United Kingdom. Statistically
significant differences between the colonies were those associated with large
error variances, suggesting difficulties in locating certain landmarks rather
than real differences in growth. Thus, direct comparison can be made between
craniofacial growth studies conducted at these two different marmoset colonies.


PMID: 6438332  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

