

4739. J Reprod Fertil. 1983 Jan;67(1):73-82.

Levels of circulating and urinary oestrogens during pregnancy in the marmoset
monkey (Callithrix jacchus).

Hodges JK, Brand H, Henderson C, Kelly RW.

The levels of immunoreactive oestrone, oestradiol-17 beta and oestriol in plasma 
and urine were measured during early, mid- and late pregnancy in the marmoset
monkey. In plasma, unconjugated oestrone remained less than 2% of total
(conjugated plus unconjugated) oestrone throughout gestation, whereas
unconjugated oestradiol-17 beta increased from 3% of the total value in early and
mid-pregnancy to 35% in late pregnancy. The reversal in the unconjugated
oestrone: oestradiol-17 beta concentration ratio from early (12:1) to late (0 .
15:1) pregnancy occurred despite the continuing predominance of oestrone in terms
of total hormone. Total oestriol was measurable but in relatively low
concentrations. Oestradiol conjugate was the predominant urinary oestrogen
metabolite measured at each stage of pregnancy. The pattern of urinary oestrone
and oestradiol-17 beta reflected plasma levels of total hormone, rather than
unconjugated hormone, showing no further increase after mid-pregnancy. In
contrast, oestriol increased throughout pregnancy and to a proportionately
greater extent than oestrone or oestradiol-17 beta, but at lower absolute levels.
High-pressure liquid chromatography of urine extract indicated the presence of
considerable amounts of oestrogen immunoreactivity not accounted for by oestrone,
oestradiol-17 beta and oestriol and with a retention time similar to that of 16
alpha-hydroxyoestrone. Gas chromatography and mass spectroscopy provided further 
evidence to suggest that 16 alpha-hydroxyoestrone is an abundant urinary
oestrogen metabolite during pregnancy in the marmoset monkey.

DOI: 10.1530/jrf.0.0670073 
PMID: 6401813  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4740. In Vitro. 1983 Jan;19(1):31-40.

Organ and species specificity of epithelial growth.

Heckman CA.

Previous work in this laboratory demonstrated that rat respiratory airway
epithelial cells grown from tissue explants undergo concurrent division and
differentiation in culture. In the present studies, this model system has been
used to optimize conditions for epithelial growth, with the goal of facilitating 
the culture of epithelium from other organs and species. Fibroblasts appeared to 
limit the expansion of epithelial outgrowths; their growth was controlled by
using delipidated serum, rather than serum, in the culture media, with addition
of adrenergic antagonists. In nonsupplemented media, rat tracheal fibroblasts
doubled in number in about 3 d. The doubling time was slowed to more than 9 d by 
the serum substitution in conjunction with the alpha-antagonist phenoxybenzamine.
Rat tracheal epithelial cultures maintained under identical conditions doubled in
less than 4 d, so that a growth advantage of threefold was achieved. The
combination of conditions also seemed to inhibit growth of fibroblasts from other
species. However, even when the problem of fibroblast overgrowth was obviated,
the respiratory airway epithelia of the mouse, hamster, and marmoset failed to
show self-sustaining growth in culture. The rat epithelium continued to grow for 
over 6 wk. A number of other organs from the rat, notably esophagus, skin, and
salivary gland, showed self-sustaining growth after removal of explants. Although
epithelial outgrowths were formed by explants from certain organs of the hamster,
only those from the kidney and thyroid continued to grow after removal of the
tissue explants. Therefore, growth failure in cultured epithelia, quantitatively 
defined, is common and frequently unrelated to the problem of fibroblast
overgrowth. The rat seems to be the species of choice for studies on the isolated
epithelia from most organ sites.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02617991 
PMID: 6401686  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

