

474. Anat Rec (Hoboken). 2019 Nov;302(11):1891-1900. doi: 10.1002/ar.24212. Epub 2019 
Jul 12.

Visualization and Quantification of Digitally Dissected Muscle Fascicles in the
Masticatory Muscles of Callithrix jacchus Using Nondestructive DiceCT.

Dickinson E(1), Basham C(2), Rana A(3), Hartstone-Rose A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, North Carolina State University, Raleigh,
North Carolina.
(2)Department of Mechanical, Aerospace, and Biomedical Engineering, University of
Tennessee, Knoxville, Tennessee.
(3)Stryker Orthopaedics, Kalamazoo, Michigan.

The organization and length of a muscle's fascicles imparts its contractile
properties. Longer fascicles permit increased muscle excursion, whereas changes
in fascicle orientation relate to the overall vector of contractile force.
Collecting data on fascicle architecture has traditionally involved destructive
and irreversible gross dissection. In recent years, however, new imaging
modalities have permitted muscles and their fascicles to be visualized
nondestructively. Here, we present data from a primate (Callithrix jacchus), in
which, for the first time, individual muscle fascicles are digitally "dissected" 
(segmented and reconstructed) using nondestructive, high-resolution diffusible
iodine-based contrast-enhanced computed tomography (DiceCT) techniques. We also
present quantitative data on the length and orientation of these fascicles within
10 muscle divisions of the jaw adductor and abductor musculature (superficial,
deep, and zygomatic portions of temporalis and masseter; medial and lateral
pterygoid; anterior and posterior digastric) and compare these digitally measured
lengths to fascicular lengths measured using traditional gross and chemical
dissection. Digitally derived fascicle lengths correspond well to their
dissection-derived counterparts. Moreover, our analyses of changes in fascicle
orientation across the adductor complex enable us to visualize previously
uncharacterized levels of detail and highlight significant variation between
adjacent muscle layers within muscle groups (e.g., between superficial, deep, and
zygomatic portions of masseter and temporalis). We conclude that this technique
offers great potential to future research, particularly for questions centered
around the visualization and quantification of obscured and often-overlooked
muscles such as the pterygoid and digastric muscles, and for deriving more
accurate models of the masticatory system as a whole. Anat Rec, 302:1891-1900,
2019. © 2019 American Association for Anatomy.

© 2019 American Association for Anatomy.

DOI: 10.1002/ar.24212 
PMID: 31251450  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


475. Front Neuroanat. 2019 Jun 6;13:60. doi: 10.3389/fnana.2019.00060. eCollection
2019.

Anatomical and Surgical Evaluation of the Common Marmoset as an Animal Model in
Hearing Research.

Kurihara S(1)(2), Fujioka M(3), Hata J(2), Yoshida T(2), Hirabayashi M(1)(2),
Yamamoto Y(1), Ogawa K(3), Kojima H(1), Okano HJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, The Jikei University School of Medicine,
Tokyo, Japan.
(2)Division of Regenerative Medicine, The Jikei University School of Medicine,
Tokyo, Japan.
(3)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Head and Neck Surgery, Keio University
School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.

Recent studies have indicated that direct administration of viral vectors or
small compounds to the inner ear may aid in the treatment of Sensorineural
hearing loss (SNHL). However, due to species differences between humans and
rodents, translating experimental results into clinical applications remains
challenging. The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a New World monkey, is
considered a pre-clinical animal model. In the present study, we describe
morphometric data acquired from the temporal bone of the common marmoset in order
to define the routes of topical drug administration to the inner ear. Dissection 
and diffusion tensor tractography (DTT) were performed on the fixed cadaverous
heads of 13 common marmosets. To investigate potential routes for drug
administration to the inner ear, we explored the anatomy of the round window,
oval window (OW), semicircular canal, and endolymphatic sac (ES). Among these,
the approach via the round window with posterior tympanotomy appeared feasible
for delivering drugs to the inner ear without manipulating the tympanic membrane,
minimizing the chances of conductive hearing loss. The courses of four critical
nerves [including the facial nerve (FN)] were visualized using three-dimensional 
(3D) DTT, which may help to avoid nerve damage during surgery. Finally, to
investigate the feasibility of actual drug administration, we measured the volume
of the round window niche (RWN), which was approximately 0.9 μL. The present
findings may help to establish experimental standards for evaluating new
therapies in this primate model.

DOI: 10.3389/fnana.2019.00060 
PMCID: PMC6563828
PMID: 31244619 

