

4752. Allergol Immunopathol (Madr). 1982 Sep-Oct;10(5):381-3.

Skin reaction in Callithrix jacchus penicillata to phytohemagglutinin.

Cardoso RR, Magalhaes-Castro B, Alves C Jr.

Sixty marmosets (Callithrix jacchus penicillata) were intradermally tested with
phytohemagglutinin. It was possible to classify this population into three groups
on the basis of the reactions: 1. negatives, 2. those which showed just local
hemorrhage, and finally 3. a group which developed a wheal as well as hemorrhage.
The biopsy at the site of the reaction demonstrated several microscopic foci.
This finding contrasted with the homogeneous cellular infiltration found in the
human controls.


PMID: 6187198  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4753. Vet Pathol Suppl. 1982 Sep;19 Suppl 7:141-62.

An analysis of the association of gastroenteric lesions with chronic wasting
syndrome of marmosets.

Chalifoux LV(1), Bronson RT, Escajadillo A, McKenna S.

Author information: 
(1)Harvard Medical School, New England Regional Primate Research Center,
Southborough, Mass.

Retrospective pathology data from necropsies of 162 marmosets, Saguinus oedipus, 
were studied to determine the nature of chronic wasting syndrome, a poorly
defined entity associated with a high mortality rate in many marmoset colonies.
Paraffin sections of the gastroenteric organs of 116 of these marmosets were
re-examined in detail; lesions were identified, quantitated, and analyzed with a 
method of multiple chi-square testing for possible associations between findings.
Five distinct disease entities were identified: prosthenorchosis, amebiasis,
paramyxovirus disease, sepsis, and chronic colitis. Lesions of several of these
often occurred in the same monkey, and all but the first were associated with
cachexia. Lesions of chronic colitis were crypt abscesses, mononuclear and
polymorphonuclear infiltration of the lamina propria, epithelial cell atypia,
karyorrhexis, and lymphoid hyperplasia. The cause of chronic colitis was not
identified, nor was any explanation found for weight loss and increased
susceptibility to disease.


PMID: 6153004  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

