

4753. Vet Pathol Suppl. 1982 Sep;19 Suppl 7:141-62.

An analysis of the association of gastroenteric lesions with chronic wasting
syndrome of marmosets.

Chalifoux LV(1), Bronson RT, Escajadillo A, McKenna S.

Author information: 
(1)Harvard Medical School, New England Regional Primate Research Center,
Southborough, Mass.

Retrospective pathology data from necropsies of 162 marmosets, Saguinus oedipus, 
were studied to determine the nature of chronic wasting syndrome, a poorly
defined entity associated with a high mortality rate in many marmoset colonies.
Paraffin sections of the gastroenteric organs of 116 of these marmosets were
re-examined in detail; lesions were identified, quantitated, and analyzed with a 
method of multiple chi-square testing for possible associations between findings.
Five distinct disease entities were identified: prosthenorchosis, amebiasis,
paramyxovirus disease, sepsis, and chronic colitis. Lesions of several of these
often occurred in the same monkey, and all but the first were associated with
cachexia. Lesions of chronic colitis were crypt abscesses, mononuclear and
polymorphonuclear infiltration of the lamina propria, epithelial cell atypia,
karyorrhexis, and lymphoid hyperplasia. The cause of chronic colitis was not
identified, nor was any explanation found for weight loss and increased
susceptibility to disease.


PMID: 6153004  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4754. Diagn Histopathol. 1982 Jul-Sep;5(3):219-22.

2-hydroxystilbamidine isethionate: a new fluorochrome for use in general
pathology. II. The selective demonstration of fungi.

Murgatroyd LB.

Paraffin sections of kidney, lung and oesophagus containing Aspergillus sp.,
Cryptococcus neoformans and Candida sp. were taken from human post mortem
material and from the marmoset Callithrix jacchus. Sections were stained for 1-5 
min in buffered 2-hydroxystilbamidine isethionate containing sodium
metabisulphite after pre-oxidation in 1 per cent aqueous periodic acid. Sections 
were dehydrated, cleared and mounted in Polymount. When excited with UV light
hyphae and fungal bodies fluoresced white contrasting sharply with yellow nuclear
fluorescence. With blue light nuclei and fungi fluoresced yellow. Staining with
the fluorochrome was pH dependent and behaved as a Schiff type reagent indicative
of its probable behaviour as a basic dye. The method was simple, rapid and
provided permanent fluorescent preparations which over a number of years did not 
fade with routine storage.


PMID: 6897222  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

