

4760. J Anat. 1982 Mar;134(Pt 2):315-38.

Distribution of catecholamine and indoleamine neurons in the brain of the common 
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Schofield SP, Dixson AF.

The distribution of monoamine neurons in the brains of ten common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus) was examined by means of the Falck-Hillarp formaldehyde
histofluorescence technique. Large populations of catecholamine and indoleamine
neurons were found throughout the brain stem. Catecholamine cell bodies
corresponded essentially to th noradrenaline and dopamine groups defined as A1-A7
and A8-A14, respectively. In contrast to Old World primate species, however, the 
noradrenaline cell populations (particularly the pontine coeruleal A6 group) were
less numerous. Ascending catecholamine fibre pathways were not observed within
the medulla or pons, although numerous axons were found near the mesodiencephalic
border. These were fine and smooth in appearance in contrast to those of other
species and this finding may represent a significant morphological difference.
The catecholamine terminal innervation of the diencephalon was modest in the
marmoset and was less dense than in other primates. In contrast, limbic areas and
the striatum contained very large numbers of terminals. Indoleamine cell bodies, 
equivalent to the serotonin groups defined as B1-B9, were also observed. The most
rostral cell populations (B7-9) were large. In addition, pontine and medullary
indoleamine neurons extended laterally through the tegmentum as noted in other
primates, such that they often adjacent to catecholamine neurons. A prominent
bundle of indoleamine axons was observed in the mesencephalon and corresponded to
a fibre pathway seen in rodents and other primates. No terminal varicosities were
noted.


PMCID: PMC1167920
PMID: 6804424  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4761. Drug Metab Dispos. 1982 Mar-Apr;10(2):110-5.

The effect of hypolipidemic agents on the hepatic microsomal drug-metabolizing
enzyme system of the rat. Induction of cytochrome(s) P-450 with specificity
toward terminal hydroxylation of lauric acid.

Orton TC, Parker GL.

The effect of chronic dietary administration of the hypolipidemic agents,
clofibrate, methylclofenapate, fenofibrate, and tibric acid, on the hepatic
drug-metabolizing enzyme system of the albino rat has been studied. Each compound
caused dose-dependent increase in liver size and cytochrome P-450
(methylclofenapate = fenofibrate = tibric acid greater than clofibrate).
NADPH-cytochrome c reductase activity was increased only after clofibrate and
methylclofenapate treatment. There was no overall increase in the metabolism of a
number of commonly used model substrates in parallel with the cytochrome P-450
induction. Aminopyrine and ethoxyresorufin dealkylation, biphenyl
4-hydroxylation, testosterone 16 alpha-hydroxylation, and o-aminophenol and
chloramphenicol glucuronidation showed no change or inhibition, whereas
ethoxycoumarin and phenacetin dealkylation and testosterone 6 beta-hydroxylation 
were increased (only up to 2-fold). Using clofibrate as a representative of this 
class of pharmacological agent, the enzymatic changes were essentially reversed
within 6 days after removal of drug from the diet. Clofibrate administration also
increased liver size and, to a lesser extent, hepatic cytochrome P-450 content in
the albino (CD-1) mouse but had no effect in the marmoset monkey. In the rat,
clofibrate administration specifically increased the hepatic microsomal
omega-hydroxylation of lauric acid approximately 28-fold, which contrasted with
the specific increase in (omega - 1)-hydroxylation caused by phenobarbital
administration. The specific increase in microsomal cytochrome P-450-mediated
omega-oxidation of a medium length, straight chain, saturated fatty acid is
similar to the documented increase in peroxisomal and mitochondrial fatty acid
beta-oxidation caused by administration of hypolipidemic agents.


PMID: 6124394  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

