

4762. Psychol Med. 1982 Feb;12(1):61-72.

Stereotypy in monkeys and humans.

Ridley RM, Baker HF.

Stereotyped movements are described in monkeys and humans and are classified as
arising from constraint, sensory deprivation in infancy, amphetamine treatment or
psychotic states. It is argued that, with the exception of cage stereotypies,
stereotyped behaviour is evidence of abnormality in the nervous system consequent
upon distorted maturational processes, organic defect or biochemical disturbance.
Stereotypy is associated with a state of cognitive inflexibility and social and
sensory isolation in humans and monkeys. It is suggested that, while no simple
biochemical disturbance in the brain can describe these various occurrences of
stereotypy, the cross-species occurrence of a syndrome of isolation, cognitive
inflexibility and stereotypy implies a related mechanism mediating these
divergent effects. If stereotypy is regarded as a consequence of failure to use
sensory input to direct behaviour, therapeutic regimes designed to stimulate
responsive behaviours and social interactions are more likely to be effective in 
the long run than direct attempts to suppress stereotypy.

DOI: 10.1017/s0033291700043294 
PMID: 6805001  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4763. Lab Anim Sci. 1982 Feb;32(1):87-90.

Poxvirus infection in a colony of common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Gough AW, Barsoum NJ, Gracon SI, Mitchell L, Sturgess JM.

An epizootic poxvirus infection occurred in a colony of 80 common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus) recently introduced to a laboratory facility. Over an
18-week period, 29 of the monkeys exhibited skin lesions that persisted for 4-6
weeks. Although eight marmosets died during the outbreak, their deaths were not
attributed directly to the poxvirus infection. The skin lesions developed over
the entire body surface including the soles and palms. Initially characterized as
erythematous papules, they quickly changed to elevated coalescing lesions with
extensive scab formation. Histopathologically, the lesions revealed moderate to
marked acanthosis, and they progressed to full-thickness epidermal necrosis and
ulceration. Intracytoplasmic inclusion bodies were observed occasionally within
degenerate keratinocytes. These inclusions most probably constituted the
intracytoplasmic aggregates of viral particles observed ultrastructurally and
confirmed as members of the poxvirus group by negative staining of direct skin
scrapings.


PMID: 6281571  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

