

4763. Lab Anim Sci. 1982 Feb;32(1):87-90.

Poxvirus infection in a colony of common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Gough AW, Barsoum NJ, Gracon SI, Mitchell L, Sturgess JM.

An epizootic poxvirus infection occurred in a colony of 80 common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus) recently introduced to a laboratory facility. Over an
18-week period, 29 of the monkeys exhibited skin lesions that persisted for 4-6
weeks. Although eight marmosets died during the outbreak, their deaths were not
attributed directly to the poxvirus infection. The skin lesions developed over
the entire body surface including the soles and palms. Initially characterized as
erythematous papules, they quickly changed to elevated coalescing lesions with
extensive scab formation. Histopathologically, the lesions revealed moderate to
marked acanthosis, and they progressed to full-thickness epidermal necrosis and
ulceration. Intracytoplasmic inclusion bodies were observed occasionally within
degenerate keratinocytes. These inclusions most probably constituted the
intracytoplasmic aggregates of viral particles observed ultrastructurally and
confirmed as members of the poxvirus group by negative staining of direct skin
scrapings.


PMID: 6281571  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4764. Infect Immun. 1982 Feb;35(2):425-30.

Cross-protection in nonhuman primates against Argentine hemorrhagic fever.

Weissenbacher MC, Coto CE, Calello MA, Rondinone SN, Damonte EB, Frigerio MJ.

The susceptibility of the marmoset Callithrix jacchus to Tacaribe virus infection
was investigated to perform cross-protection studies between Junin and Tacaribe
viruses. Five marmosets inoculated with Tacaribe virus failed to show any signs
of disease, any alterations in erythrocyte, leukocyte, reticulocyte, and platelet
counts or any changes in hematocrit or hemoglobin values. No Tacaribe virus could
be recovered from blood at any time postinfection. Anti-Tacaribe neutralizing
antibodies appeared 3 weeks postinfection. The five Tacaribe-infected marmosets
and four noninfected controls were challenged with the pathogenic strain of Junin
virus on day 60 post-Tacaribe infection. The former group showed no signs of
disease, no viremia, and no challenge virus replication, whereas the control
group exhibited the typical symptoms of Argentine hemorrhagic fever, high
viremia, and viral titers in organs. Soon after challenge, the Tacaribe-protected
marmosets synthesized neutralizing antibodies against Junin virus. These results 
indicate that the marmoset C. jacchus can be considered an experimental model for
protection studies with arenaviruses and that the Tacaribe virus could be
considered as a potential vaccine against Junin virus.

DOI: 10.1128/iai.35.2.425-430.1982 
PMCID: PMC351056
PMID: 6276301  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

