

4776. J Med Primatol. 1982;11(5):303-11.

The postnatal development of the temporomandibular joint of the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus).

Wilson NH(1), Gardner DL.

Author information: 
(1)University of Manchester, England.

The temporomandibular joints (TMJ) of 55 male and 50 female common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus) with an age range of 1 day- to < 12-yr-old have been studied
to extend the knowledge on the craniomandibular articulation of this primate.
Details of changes in the bone structure, gross and functional anatomy, and
histologic appearance of the marmoset TMJ during the neonatal period, infancy,
childhood, adolescence, and adulthood are compared with those which occur in the 
TMJ of man. It is concluded that further investigations on the structure and
function of the marmoset TMJ and jaws may establish this nonhuman primate as a
valuable analog for TMJ research in man.


PMID: 6153018  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4777. Br J Exp Pathol. 1981 Dec;62(6):606-13.

Immunity to reinfection of the genital tract of marmosets with Chlamydia
trachomatis.

Johnson AP, Osborn MF, Thomas BJ, Hetherington CM, Taylor-Robinson D.

Eleven marmosets inoculated intra-vaginally with either of 2 serotypes (D/E and
H) of Chlamydia trachomatis developed a self-limited infection which persisted
usually for 10-42 days. Animals re-inoculated on one or more occasions were,
however, infected generally for a shorter duration, usually 3-7 days. Curtailed
infections were observed after re-inoculation with either the same or a different
serotype, indicating that immunity was not serotype specific but
cross-protective. IgM and/or IgG chlamydial antibody, measured by
micro-immunofluorescence, developed in most of the marmosets on primary infection
and was not serotype specific. The antibody titres were boosted on re-infection
and there was a correlation between pre-existing high antibody titres and
infections of short duration. Chlamydial infection of the genital tract was
accompanied by acute inflammation which persisted in about half of the immune
animals for up to several weeks despite rapid clearance of the organisms. These
features of the experimental infection should help to provide a greater
understanding of the immunobiology and pathogenesis of chlamydial genital-tract
infections of humans.


PMCID: PMC2041723
PMID: 6798987  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

