

4777. Br J Exp Pathol. 1981 Dec;62(6):606-13.

Immunity to reinfection of the genital tract of marmosets with Chlamydia
trachomatis.

Johnson AP, Osborn MF, Thomas BJ, Hetherington CM, Taylor-Robinson D.

Eleven marmosets inoculated intra-vaginally with either of 2 serotypes (D/E and
H) of Chlamydia trachomatis developed a self-limited infection which persisted
usually for 10-42 days. Animals re-inoculated on one or more occasions were,
however, infected generally for a shorter duration, usually 3-7 days. Curtailed
infections were observed after re-inoculation with either the same or a different
serotype, indicating that immunity was not serotype specific but
cross-protective. IgM and/or IgG chlamydial antibody, measured by
micro-immunofluorescence, developed in most of the marmosets on primary infection
and was not serotype specific. The antibody titres were boosted on re-infection
and there was a correlation between pre-existing high antibody titres and
infections of short duration. Chlamydial infection of the genital tract was
accompanied by acute inflammation which persisted in about half of the immune
animals for up to several weeks despite rapid clearance of the organisms. These
features of the experimental infection should help to provide a greater
understanding of the immunobiology and pathogenesis of chlamydial genital-tract
infections of humans.


PMCID: PMC2041723
PMID: 6798987  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4778. J Reprod Fertil. 1981 Nov;63(2):335-45.

Inhibition of ovarian function in subordinate female marmoset monkeys (Callithrix
jacchus jacchus).

Abbott DH, McNeilly AS, Lunn SF, Hulme MJ, Burden FJ.

Plasma concentrations of progesterone, cortisol, LH and prolactin were measured
in dominant and subordinate female marmosets in 10 well-established peer groups. 
Subordinate females never ovulated, had a reduced LH response to LH-RH and showed
no positive feedback LH surge after oestrogen administration. There was no
evidence of elevated plasma cortisol levels or hyperprolactinaemia in
subordinates and all showed a similar prolactin response to TRH in comparison
with dominants. However, subordinates showed a reduced prolactin response to
metoclopramide. These results clearly indicate that high circulating levels of
cortisol or prolactin are not responsible for the inhibition of ovulation in
female marmosets.

DOI: 10.1530/jrf.0.0630335 
PMID: 6795346  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

