

4793. Infect Immun. 1981 Mar;31(3):1261-9.

Syncytium-forming virus of common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus jacchus).

Marczynska B, Jones CJ, Wolfe LG.

This communication describes the isolation and characterization of a new
syncytium-forming virus of common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus jacchus). The
virus, isolated from skin explants and peripheral leukocytes of healthy animals, 
induced syncytia and subsequent cytolysis of several human, simian, and rodent
fibroblastic cultures and induced a carrier state in mixed
fibroblastic-epithelial or epithelial cell lines. Cytoplasmic and nuclear viral
antigen was demonstrated in infected cells by indirect immunofluorescence tests
using serum obtained from persistently infected common marmosets. Abundant virus 
particles were detected within cisternae of endoplasmic reticulum of lytically
infected cells by electron microscopy. The virus incorporated [3H]uridine, banded
at a density of 1.14 to 1.16 g/cm3 in sucrose, and possessed ribonucleic
acid-dependent deoxyribonucleic acid polymerase. No antigenic cross-reactivity
was detected between the marmoset virus and simian foamy virus serotypes 1 to 8
in neutralization and immunofluorescence assays. A seroepidemiological survey of 
a marmoset colony revealed that 53.5% of common marmosets contained antibodies
against the virus, whereas other species of marmosets maintained in the same
colony remained free of antibodies.

DOI: 10.1128/iai.31.3.1261-1269.1981 
PMCID: PMC351450
PMID: 6164648  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4794. Lab Anim Sci. 1981 Feb;31(1):52-5.

Competition for a desired food in family groups of the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus) and the cotton-top tamarin (Saguinus oedipus).

Tardif SD, Richter CB.

Four captive groups of common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) and three groups of 
cotton-top tamarins (Saguinus oedipus) were each presented with a desired food
and their consumption was monitored. Inequalities in consumption between
individuals were found for each group of each species. Generally, adult females
consumed most of the desired food, followed by juveniles, and finally adult
males. High consumption levels by all individuals during isolated feedings
indicated that consumption inequalities within groups were most likely due to
competition rather than inter-individual preference differences. Aggressive
defense of the food cup was performed most frequently by adult females in both
species. In Callithrix jacchus groups, this aggression was most often directed
against adult males, but in Saguinus oedipus groups, it was most often directed
against juveniles. Modification of the method of food presentation, such that
food was more dispersed, lessened, but did not eliminate, inequalities in
consumption.


PMID: 6789003  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

