

4794. Lab Anim Sci. 1981 Feb;31(1):52-5.

Competition for a desired food in family groups of the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus) and the cotton-top tamarin (Saguinus oedipus).

Tardif SD, Richter CB.

Four captive groups of common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) and three groups of 
cotton-top tamarins (Saguinus oedipus) were each presented with a desired food
and their consumption was monitored. Inequalities in consumption between
individuals were found for each group of each species. Generally, adult females
consumed most of the desired food, followed by juveniles, and finally adult
males. High consumption levels by all individuals during isolated feedings
indicated that consumption inequalities within groups were most likely due to
competition rather than inter-individual preference differences. Aggressive
defense of the food cup was performed most frequently by adult females in both
species. In Callithrix jacchus groups, this aggression was most often directed
against adult males, but in Saguinus oedipus groups, it was most often directed
against juveniles. Modification of the method of food presentation, such that
food was more dispersed, lessened, but did not eliminate, inequalities in
consumption.


PMID: 6789003  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4795. Clin Exp Immunol. 1981 Jan;43(1):128-34.

Antibodies selectively reactive to autologous and host-type platelets are
obtained following interspecies immunizations in marmosets.

Gengozian N, Annostby D.

Interspecies immunization of marmosets with platelets leads to an acute
thrombocytopenia which appears to be immunologically mediated. The
thrombocytopenia is preceded by the formation of antibodies to the donor platelet
antigen and deposition of IgG on the host's platelets. Examination of sera
obtained from these animals during the course of the disease has revealed the
presence of antibodies towards autologous and host-type platelets. Autologous
antibody was found when thrombocytopenia was severe; upon platelet recovery, this
antibody was absent or reduced in titre. This in vivo absorption of host-specific
(autologous) antibody led to detection in the serum of antibodies reactive to
other members of the host species. The presence of such host-type antibodies
appeared to be related to the intensity of antigenic stimulation, the amount of
antibody formed and the degree of thrombocytopenia. Deposition of IgG on the
host's platelets coincided with the appearance of the anti-host antibodies;
whether the IgG detected on the host's platelets is exclusively cross-reactive
antibody or includes also an immune complex is not yet known. Finally, the data
have identified potential immunogenetic differences among members of two marmoset
species with respect to platelet antigens.


PMCID: PMC1537130
PMID: 7249390  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

