

4795. Clin Exp Immunol. 1981 Jan;43(1):128-34.

Antibodies selectively reactive to autologous and host-type platelets are
obtained following interspecies immunizations in marmosets.

Gengozian N, Annostby D.

Interspecies immunization of marmosets with platelets leads to an acute
thrombocytopenia which appears to be immunologically mediated. The
thrombocytopenia is preceded by the formation of antibodies to the donor platelet
antigen and deposition of IgG on the host's platelets. Examination of sera
obtained from these animals during the course of the disease has revealed the
presence of antibodies towards autologous and host-type platelets. Autologous
antibody was found when thrombocytopenia was severe; upon platelet recovery, this
antibody was absent or reduced in titre. This in vivo absorption of host-specific
(autologous) antibody led to detection in the serum of antibodies reactive to
other members of the host species. The presence of such host-type antibodies
appeared to be related to the intensity of antigenic stimulation, the amount of
antibody formed and the degree of thrombocytopenia. Deposition of IgG on the
host's platelets coincided with the appearance of the anti-host antibodies;
whether the IgG detected on the host's platelets is exclusively cross-reactive
antibody or includes also an immune complex is not yet known. Finally, the data
have identified potential immunogenetic differences among members of two marmoset
species with respect to platelet antigens.


PMCID: PMC1537130
PMID: 7249390  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4796. Int J Oral Surg. 1981;10(Suppl 1):292-8.

A pilot study on the effect of alteration of the suprahyoid muscles on the growth
of the marmoset monkey.

Davis WH, Sailer H, Poswillo D.

A pilot study was undertaken to determine the effect, if any, of alteration of
the suprahyoid muscles on mandibular growth in the marmoset. It was postulated
that releasing the attachment of the digastric and geniohyoid muscles at their
junction with the mandible might produce a growth change in the rotation pattern 
of mandibular growth. Similarly, shortening these muscles might produce a
different but significant growth change. Ten animals were used, five of which
were controls. Two animals had their suprahyoid muscles sectioned, and three
others had their suprahyoid muscles shortened by plication. The animals were
examined with cephalometric radiographs at the commencement of the experiment and
at specific intervals thereafter until they reached maturity (approximately 1 1/2
years of age). The results indicate that releasing the digastrics and the
suprahyoids at the mandible causes no significant change in the length of the
mandible. Shortening of the suprahyoids through plication, however, appears to
result in a notable change in the mandible and possibly the face. This study
suggests that further research in this area may be fruitful in producing a
primate model with a' retruded genial area or a tongue protrusion by plication or
otherwise shortening the suprahyoid muscles.


PMID: 6807896  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

