

4796. Int J Oral Surg. 1981;10(Suppl 1):292-8.

A pilot study on the effect of alteration of the suprahyoid muscles on the growth
of the marmoset monkey.

Davis WH, Sailer H, Poswillo D.

A pilot study was undertaken to determine the effect, if any, of alteration of
the suprahyoid muscles on mandibular growth in the marmoset. It was postulated
that releasing the attachment of the digastric and geniohyoid muscles at their
junction with the mandible might produce a growth change in the rotation pattern 
of mandibular growth. Similarly, shortening these muscles might produce a
different but significant growth change. Ten animals were used, five of which
were controls. Two animals had their suprahyoid muscles sectioned, and three
others had their suprahyoid muscles shortened by plication. The animals were
examined with cephalometric radiographs at the commencement of the experiment and
at specific intervals thereafter until they reached maturity (approximately 1 1/2
years of age). The results indicate that releasing the digastrics and the
suprahyoids at the mandible causes no significant change in the length of the
mandible. Shortening of the suprahyoids through plication, however, appears to
result in a notable change in the mandible and possibly the face. This study
suggests that further research in this area may be fruitful in producing a
primate model with a' retruded genial area or a tongue protrusion by plication or
otherwise shortening the suprahyoid muscles.


PMID: 6807896  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4797. J Med Primatol. 1981;10(4-5):205-11.

Marmoset response to immunization with porcine zonae pellucidae. Measurement of
antibody activity with an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.

Fox LL, Gengozian N, Shivers CA, Sieg P.

An enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) was used to detect antibodies in
sera from a marmoset inoculated with porcine zonae. Antibodies which bound to
heat solubilized zonae immobilized in microtiter plates were detected by an
enzymatic reaction using goat antimarmoset IgG conjugated to alkaline
phosphatase. During a nine-week immunization period, the antibody response
profile as determined with the ELISA was parallel to that obtained with an
indirect immunofluorescent test on intact zonae. This procedure has certain
advantages over presently used methods of titrating anti-zona sera.

DOI: 10.1159/000460077 
PMID: 6806476  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

