

4811. Int J Cancer. 1980 Jun 15;25(6):749-56.

Radioimmunoassay for infectious primate retrovirus reverse transcriptase:
characterization, comparison with conventional immunologic assays and
applicability to cellular extracts.

Robert-Guroff M(1), Kalyanaraman VS, Sarngadharan MG.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Tumor Cell Biology, National Cancer Institute, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Md. 20205, USA.

SSV reverse transcriptase (RT) was purified to homogeneity and used in a
radioimmunoassay. Following iodination, the homogeneity of the protein and its
identity with RT were confirmed by several criteria: (1) its molecular weight on 
an SDS-polyacrylamide gel; (2) its precipitation by anti-SSV RT but not by
antisera to other SSV proteins; (3) its cross-reactivity in RIA with antisera to 
other retroviral polymerases; (4) its competition in RIA by active homogeneous
SSV RT but not by other purified SSV proteins; and (5) its competition in RIA by 
only those fractions from a poly(U)-Sepharose column possessing SSV RT activity. 
Competition of the labelled probe with disrupted retroviruses of the infectious
primate group showed that, while a homologous RIA detected only type-specific
enzyme determinants, it did not distinguish the various woolly-gibbon retroviral 
DNA polymerases. A more broadly reactive heterologous assay utilizing an
antiserum to R-MuLV RT detected group- but not interspecies-specific enzyme
determinants. A comparison of immunologic assays for RT showed that: (1) highly
purified RT is not essential for reliable results in enzyme neutralization or
enzyme binding assays; (2) the greater sensitivity of enzyme binding compared to 
enzyme neutralization assays is a function of the antibody, not of the antigen.
Competition RIAs using extracts of virus-infected cells showed that infectious
primate retrovirus RT could be measured in a crude system and that cellular DNA
polymerases alpha, beta and gamma did not compete with the labelled probe.

DOI: 10.1002/ijc.2910250610 
PMID: 14768704  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4812. Br J Exp Pathol. 1980 Jun;61(3):291-5.

Experimental infection of the marmoset genital tract with Chlamydia trachomatis.

Johnson AP, Hetherington CM, Osborn MF, Thomas BJ, Taylor-Robinson D.

A strain of Chlamydia trachomatis isolated in McCoy cells from the urethra of a
patient suffering from non-gonococcal urethritis was inoculated into the vagina
of 8 female marmosets. Chlamydiae were isolated repeatedly for 10-42 days from
the lower genital tract of 7 of the marmosets. Six of the infected animals
developed an acute inflammatory reaction in the genital tract and chlamydial
inclusions in epithelial cells were seen in smears from 2 of them. In addition,
each of 6 infected marmosets examined developed humoral antibodies to C.
trachomatis. In contrast, 3 control animals inoculated intravaginally with
chlamydia-free McCoy cells showed no evidence of chlamydial infection. Since the 
marmoset is small and easily bred in captivity, it should provide a useful model 
for studying the mechanisms of chlamydial pathogenicity.


PMCID: PMC2041588
PMID: 7426384  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

