

4842. Exp Brain Res. 1978 Nov 15;33(3-4):551-63.

The retino-geniculo-cortical pathway in Callithrix. I. Intraspecific variations
in the lamination pattern of the lateral geniculate nucleus.

Spatz WB.

Injections of tritiated tracer precursors into one eye revealed a highly variable
lamination pattern of the LGN in the marmoset Callithrix. In one specimen, only
four cell layers were apparent with some indication of further differentiation.
In a second specimen, six almost complete relay layers were found in the
occipital portion of the LGN. Three other animals showed stages between these two
extremes. The lamination pattern of Callithrix thun represents an intermediate
stage between a four-layered LGN suggested as the basic primate pattern, and the 
advanced six-layered LGN of most other anthropoid monkeys. In addition, bilateral
retinal terminations were found consistently in layer 0, and contralateral
terminations in a narrow band between the magnocellular and parvocellular
portions of the nucleus, and within the interlaminar zone which separates the two
magnocellular layers.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00235574 
PMID: 103740  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4843. Vet Rec. 1978 Sep 23;103(13):284-7.

Bacterial and mycoplasma flora of a laboratory colony of the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus).

Hill AC, Turton JA, Bleby J.

A survey was carried out to characterise the bacterial and mycoplasma flora of a 
closed colony of marmosets, Callithrix jacchus. Bordetella bronchiseptica and
Staphylococcus aureus were the only potential bacterial pathogens isolated from
the colony; Candida albicans was also identified. S aureus and C albicans were
the only organisms which were associated with macroscopic lesions or overt
disease. Post mortem examination of the animals proved only reliable method of
establishing the presence of some bacterial species in the colony, eg, B
bronchiseptica and of obtaining a reliable estimate of the incidence of the
various organisms within the colony. The marmosets were all infected with
ureaplasmas in the upper respiratory tract. Mycoplasma salivarium was isolated
from this site in several animals. There was no evidence to indicate that
cross-infection had occurred between the animal technicians and the marmosets,
except in one possible case of candidiasis.

DOI: 10.1136/vr.103.13.284 
PMID: 102075  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

