

4849. Lab Anim Sci. 1978 Feb;28(1):75-80.

Sex determination in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Stein FJ.

The general morphology of the external genitalia was examined in 43 common
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) ranging in age from newborn to adult. At birth,
the scrotum was a small irregular fold of skin on either side of the caudal
aspect of the penis. The testes were not present in the scrotum until 8--11
months of age. The scrotum covered the penis in the adult male, was devoid of
fur, was covered by pearly while nodules, and presented a median raphe. In the
young female, the pudendal pad closely resembled the scrotum of the male. The
vulva was pendulous, and the small vestibular opening was located near its most
ventral aspect and closely resembled the preputial opening of the male. In the
adult female, the pudendal pad was pendulous, was studded with white nodules, and
closely resembled the scrotum of the male. Sex determination by casual
observation resulted in numerous errors. Accurate sex determination was based on 
differences in the preputial and vestibular openings, demonstration of the glans 
penis in the prepuce, and palpation of the testes in the scrotum or inguinal
region.


PMID: 416296  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4850. J Endocrinol. 1978 Feb;76(2):271-81.

Effects of gonadectomy and oestradiol treatment on plasma luteinizing hormone
concentrations in the marmoset monkey, Callithrix jacchus.

Hodges JK.

A heterologous double-antibody radioimmunoassay for marmoset LH is described in
detail. The system uses NIAMDD rat LH-I-1 for iodination, NIAMDD rat LH-RP-1 as
standard and anti-ovine rabbit LH 610V serum. The assay measures the level of
marmoset LH in plasma and shows a maximum cross-reaction (B/Bo = 50%) of 0.3%
with other rat, human or bovine pituitary hormones. The heterologous assay has
been applied to the measurement of the level of LH in the marmoset after
gonadectomy and after the subsequent implantation of oestradiol-17beta capsules. 
A clear increase in the concentration of LH in the plasma was observed by day 3
after gonadectomy and in most animals the level reached a plateau by day 9. The
rates of increase in the concentration of LH and the maximum levels attained
after gonadectomy were similar in male and female marmosets. The secretion of LH 
in long-term gonadectomized marmosets was episodic. In four of the marmosets
studied, the frequency of the pulsatile discharges of LH was circhoral, whereas
in the remaining five animals the frequency could not be determined. Subcutaneous
implants containing oestradiol-17beta were seen to have a biphasic effect on the 
secretion of LH in all gonadectomized marmosets. After a transient increase in
the concentration of LH (positive feedback) on day 1, levels fell markedly by day
4 and were undetectable 8 days after the implants were introduced (negative
feedback).

DOI: 10.1677/joe.0.0760271 
PMID: 415104  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

