

4851. Anthropol Anz. 1978 Feb;36(2):121-6.

[Transferrin findings in Callithrix jacchus Linné, 1758 (Primates, Platyrrhina)].

[Article in German]

Scheffrahn W.

This paper deals with the transferrin (Tf) polymorphism in the South American
marmoset Callithrix jacchus. The transferrin bands of this species are positioned
in the electropherogramme cathodal to the beta1C-globulin (C 3), s. Fig. 1. By
means of the combined agarose gel immuno-electrophoresis 7 distinguishable
phenotypes have been detected in 166 animals (s. Fig. 2). The formal genetic
analysis of 28 matings with 48 youngs (cf. Table 1) leads to the assumption that 
at least 4 codominant alleles (Tf Cja, Tf Cjb, Tf Cjc, Tf Cjd) are existent at
the autosomal Tf-locus in Callithrix jacchus.


PMID: 414654  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4852. Biomedicine. 1978 Feb;29(1):7-10.

Experimental infection of Callithrix Jacchus marmosets with Herpesvirus ateles,
Herpesvirus saimiri, and Epstein Barr virus.

Ablashi DV, Pearson G, Rabin H, Armstrong G, Easton J, Valerio M, Cicmanec J.

We inoculated common marmosets (Callithrix Jacchus) with Herpesvirus ateles
(HVA), Herpesvirus saimiri (HVS), and Epstein-Barr virus (EBV). HVA-induced
tumors contained several cell types, including giant cells reminiscent of the
Sternberg-Reed cells observed in human Hodgkin's disease. HVS and EBV did not
induce tumors, although HVS was present in lymphocytes and elicited a strong
antibody response. EBV elicited only a variable antibody response. We feel that
more common marmosets should be used to determine if the pathologic and
immunologic lesions caused by HVA would be a suitable animal model for Hodgkin's 
disease and/or other malignant lymphomas of man. Inconsistency in the induction
of tumors by EBV and HVS in common marmosets suggets that this species may be a
different type of model for human cancer research than the cottontop marmoset,
which is the most susceptible animal host for EBV and HVS oncogenesis.


PMID: 208678  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

