

4858. Primates Med. 1978;10:20-9.

Callitrichids in Brazil and the Guianas: current conservation status and
potential for biomedical research.

Mittermeier RA, Coimbra-Filho AF, van Roosmalen MG.

Brazilian and Guianan callitrichids are categorized as endangered, vulnerable,
common or status unknown. Endangered species should not be used in biomedical
research and a continuing supply of wild-caught vulnerable species is also out of
the question. Common species, on the other hand, could withstand limited
sustained yield cropping without difficulty. Species categorized as status
unknown should not be used until more data on them become available.
Callitrichids have a higher reproductive potential than other New World monkeys, 
are for the most part quite adaptable, and are rarely hunted for food or captured
as pets locally. Widespread habitat destruction is the major threat to their
survival and species with naturally small ranges in areas of high human activity 
(e.g. Leontopithecus, Callithrix flaviceps) are in the greatest danger.


PMID: 417322  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4859. Primates Med. 1978;10:12-9.

Marmoset evolution: the molecular evidence.

Cronin JE, Sarich VM.

We report here the results of comparative immunological and electrophoretic
studies of the serum proteins of the New World monkeys. Specifically, we find
that the New World monkeys share a long period of common ancestry with the
Catarrhini and that the divergence between these two groups occurred some 35-40
million years ago. The extant New World monkey lineages are then seen as sharing 
a long period of common ancestry subsequent to that divergence, with their
radiation beginning in the early Miocene. We see seven distinct lineages stemming
from this radiation: (1) Aotus, (2) Callicebus, (3) Cebus, (4) Saimiri, (5)
Ateles-Lagothrix-Alouatta, (6) Pithecia-Cacajao and (7) Callimico-Callimico with 
Cebuella-Saguinus-Leontideus. Within those Ateles with Lagonthrix, and Callimico 
with Callithrix-Cebuella form further subgroups. The marmoset radiation appears
to have begun some 7-10 million years ago.


PMID: 417317  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

