

4866. Primates Med. 1978;10:142-8.

Studies with the baboon endogenous virus and its pseudotype of murine sarcoma
virus in marmosets.

Heberling RL, Kalter SS, Eichberg JW, Levy BM.

Three marmoset species (Saguinus oedipus oedipus, S. fuscicollis, Callithrix
jacchus) failed to show evidence of infection or disease following inoculation of
baboon endogenous type-C virus (BaEV). Cells infected with a Kirsten murine
sarcoma-BaEV pseudotype (MSV[BaEV]) produced a progressive fibrosarcoma in S. o. 
oedipus and tumors in S. fuscicollis and C. jacchus which regressed. Tumor
formation is believed to be due to growth of inoculated, virus-infected cells and
not transformation of marmoset cells. S. o. oedipus showed the best serum
neutralizing antibody response to BaEV and MSV(BaEV), S. fuscicollis a moderate
response and C. jacchus no response.


PMID: 205851  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4867. Z Mikrosk Anat Forsch. 1978;92(3):587-97.

Histochemical observations on the taste buds of the marmosets (Callithrix jacchus
and Callithrix penicillata).

Moura CS, Miraglia T.

The epithelial cells in the taste buds of C. jacchus and C. penicillata show a
moderate amount of ribonucleic acid an a concentration of a PAS-positive
diastase-resistant material at their apical part. These cells are devoid of
UDPG-GT, phosphorylases, G-6-PA, alanyl aminopeptidase, leucine aminopeptidase,
cholinesterase and MAO; they present a weak reaction of F-1, 6-P Ald, LDH, SDH,
MDH, cytochrome oxidase, beta-OHBDH, nonspecific esterase and acid phosphatase
and a stronger reaction to ADH, NADPH2-TR, ATPases, alpha-GPDH, alkaline
phosphatase, 5-nucleotidase and GDH. Although some enzymes (alkaline phosphatase,
5-nucleotidase and ATPases) have an almost uniform reactivity by the several
taste buds, the other ones react with a lesser intensity in the smaller uniform
reactivity by the several taste buds, the other ones react with a lesser
intensity in the smaller taste buds of the fungiform papillae. As a rule the
apical part of the cells shows a stronger enzymatic reactivity. The taste buds of
the marmosets are penetrated by acetylcholinesterase positive nerve fibers
whereas the autonomic ganglia in the connective tissue contain both-acetyl and
butyrylcholinesterase.


PMID: 155939  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

