

4867. Z Mikrosk Anat Forsch. 1978;92(3):587-97.

Histochemical observations on the taste buds of the marmosets (Callithrix jacchus
and Callithrix penicillata).

Moura CS, Miraglia T.

The epithelial cells in the taste buds of C. jacchus and C. penicillata show a
moderate amount of ribonucleic acid an a concentration of a PAS-positive
diastase-resistant material at their apical part. These cells are devoid of
UDPG-GT, phosphorylases, G-6-PA, alanyl aminopeptidase, leucine aminopeptidase,
cholinesterase and MAO; they present a weak reaction of F-1, 6-P Ald, LDH, SDH,
MDH, cytochrome oxidase, beta-OHBDH, nonspecific esterase and acid phosphatase
and a stronger reaction to ADH, NADPH2-TR, ATPases, alpha-GPDH, alkaline
phosphatase, 5-nucleotidase and GDH. Although some enzymes (alkaline phosphatase,
5-nucleotidase and ATPases) have an almost uniform reactivity by the several
taste buds, the other ones react with a lesser intensity in the smaller uniform
reactivity by the several taste buds, the other ones react with a lesser
intensity in the smaller taste buds of the fungiform papillae. As a rule the
apical part of the cells shows a stronger enzymatic reactivity. The taste buds of
the marmosets are penetrated by acetylcholinesterase positive nerve fibers
whereas the autonomic ganglia in the connective tissue contain both-acetyl and
butyrylcholinesterase.


PMID: 155939  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4868. J Med Primatol. 1978;7(2):82-97.

Chromosome banding patterns and nucleolar organizing regions in three species of 
Callithricidae (Saguinus oedipus, Saguinus fuscicollis, and Callithrix jacchus).

Bedard MT, Ma NS, Jones TC.

Chromosome complements of three species of Callithricidae, Saguinus oedipus,
Saguinus fuscicollis and Callithrix jacchus, were analyzed by various banding
techniques. Morphometric data are presented. A diploid chromosome number of 2n = 
46 is reconfirmed for all three species. Several interesting interspecies
chromosomal variations were demonstrated by G- and C-band patterns. Active
nucleolar organizing regions (NORs) were revealed by the Ag-AS silver
histochemical stain.

DOI: 10.1159/000459791 
PMID: 101664  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

