

4872. J Natl Cancer Inst. 1977 Nov;59(5):1475-8.

Susceptibility of common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) to oncogenic and
attenuated strains of Herpesvirus saimiri.

Wright J, Falk LA, Wolfe LG, Ogden J, Deinhardt F.

Adult common marmosets, inoculated with either of 2 oncogenic Herpesvirus saimiri
(HVS) strains, developed fatal lymphoproliferative disease within 23-25 days post
inoculation (PI). The disease was identical to HVS-induced lymphoma in
cotton-topped and white-lipped marmosets. Common marmosets inoculated with an
attenuated HVS strain developed persistent infection; virus has been recovered
from cocultivated lymphocytes of these animals for more than 384 days PI.


PMID: 198565  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4873. Lab Anim Sci. 1977 Oct;27(5 Pt 2):895-900.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus jacchus) as a model for ethological
research.

Stevenson MF.

The uses and advantages of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus jacchus) as an
animal model for ethological research were examined. It was found that this
species had advantages over Old World primates for work on social behavior as a
nearer approximation to the group structure occurring in natural conditions could
be obtained in the laboratory. The small size of the common marmoset also made it
easier to handle and cheaper to maintain. The adult female gave birth at
five-month intervals and usually reared twin offspring. This, and the short
generation time, made it an ideal model for mother-infant behavioral studies. The
common marmoset was also shown to be a useful model for studies of social play,
especially for categorizing the changes in playful behavior with age, and the
relationship of the patterns seen in play to other behaviors. It was also
suggested that it may be an ideal model for experimental studies of play. Other
suggested uses included studies of the relationship of food supply and feeding
habits to territory size and group structure, and of the advantages to elder
offspring of helping to rear younger siblings. As a result of these observations 
the common marmoset was considered to have great potential as a model for
ethological research, both in its natural habitat and in the laboratory.


PMID: 413004  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

