

4896. Adv Anat Embryol Cell Biol. 1976;52(5):3-47.

The embryology of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Phillips IR.

Earlier studies have noted the unusual placental anatomy of marmosets and the
high frequency of biovular, synchorial twinning. The maintenance of a captive
colony of Callithrix jacchus has enabled further studies to be made of embryonic 
development in this species. Thirty-six embryos from seventeen pregnancies were
examined in detail and assigned to horizons on the basis of Streeter's
classification of external form and internal structure. The specimens represented
tha major part of the embryonic period and, with few exceptions, the structural
development of the marmoset closely resembled that of the other primates that
have been described. Marmoset embryos of a given horizon were consistently
shorter than those of man. The timing of morphogenesis in C. jacchus was
different from that observed in man and other primates. There was a considerable 
delay in early embryogenesis in the marmoset, although subsequent to stage XI,
development proceeded at approximately the same rate as other primates. The
available evidence suggested that this anomaly was not due to delayed
implantation or embryonic diapause but to a generally slower rate of early
development. The evolution of synchorial twinning is considered as a possible
reason for this mode of development.


PMID: 827927  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4897. Acta Anat (Basel). 1976;96(4):547-60.

Histochemical differences between the major salivary glands of the marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus and Callithrix penicillata).

Miraglia T, Moura CS, Santos AJ.

Histoenzymologic differences between the parotid, paramandibular and
submandibular glands were studied in six Callithrix jacchus (four males and two
females) and four Callithrix penicillata (three males and one female). The
acinous cells of the paramandibular glands showed a stronger reactivity for the
diaphorases (NADH2-TR and NADPH2-TR) and for a certain group of enzymes of the
carbohydrate metabolism (F-1-6P Ald, LDH, ADH, G-6-PDH and 6-PGDH), lipid
metabolism (alpha-GPDH, beta-OHBDH, alkaline phosphatase and acid phosphatase),
protein metabolism (alanyl aminopeptidase, leucine aminopeptidase and GDH) and
respiratory chain (cris-aconitase and ICDH). The nonspecific esterase was more
reactive in the basal part of of the mucous cells of the submandibular glands.
Conversely, some enzymes of the respiratory chain (SDH, cytochrome oxidase and
ATPases) showed a stronger reactivity in the serous cells of the parotid and
submandibular glands. The paramandibular glands exhibited a lesser autonomic
innervation than the parotid and submandibular.


PMID: 827738  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

