

4902. Acta Anat (Basel). 1976;94(2):237-47.

Histochemical studies on the adrenal glands of the marmosets (Callithrix jacchus 
and Callithrix penicillata).

Miraglia T, Sadigursky M, Roters FA, Pinto G.

The histrochemistry of the adrenal glands was studied in four adult male
marmosets (two Callithrix jacchus and two Callithrix penicillata). It was
impossible to demonstrate any reactivity to UDPG-GT, ADH, alanyl aminopeptidase, 
leucine aminopeptidase, xilitol (NAD-dependent) dehydrogenase, beta-glucuronidase
and aryl-sulfatase in these glands. Total phosphorylase was found in scattered
cells of the glomerulosa and adjacent outer fasciculata of one C. penicillata.
The dehydrogenases (LDH, G-6-PDH,6-PGDH, NADPH2-TR,ICDH,SDH,NADH2-TR, alpha-GPDH,
beta-OHBDH) as well as the hydrolases (except alkaline phosphatase, ATPase, and
acetylcholinesterase) showed a stonger reactivity in the cortical part. Some
hydrolases (naphthol acetate esterase, acid phosphatase) and cytochrome oxidase
were less reactive in the zona glomerulosa, where the dehydrogenases were more
abundant. The outer fasciculata and the reticularis also showed a strong
dehydrogenase reactivity.


PMID: 8944  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4903. Lab Anim Sci. 1975 Dec;25(6):802-13.

Reproduction of wild-caught and laboratory-born marmoset species used in
biomedical research (Saguinus sp, Callithrix jacchus).

Wolfe LG, Deinhardt F, Ogden JD, Adams MR, Fisher LE.

Reproductive performances of wild-caught and laboratory-born marmosets maintained
in a paired-cage system were summarized. Wild-caught, white-lipped (WL) marmosets
(Saguinus fuscicollis, S nigricollis) averaged 2.6 live births per pair per yr
compared with 1.6 for cotton-topped (CT) marmosets (S oedipus); S fuscicollis
illigeri pairs were the best producers. Of first and second generation
laboratory-born animals, crossbred or hybrid WL pairs were the best producers;
first generation pairs averaged 2.7 live births per pair per yr, comparable to
the production of wild-caught WL pairs. In contrast, laboratory-born Sf illigeri 
pairs produced only 0.8 live births per pair per yr. No significant differences
in reproductive performance were observed between first generation outbred vs
inbred and between parent-reared vs hand-reared pairs. Based on limited data, the
reproductive capabilities of wild-caught and laboratory-born Callithrix jacchus
appeared superior to both WL and CT marmosets. Ten examples of marmoset models in
biomedical research were discussed briefly.


PMID: 813062  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

