

4906. Lab Anim. 1975 Oct;9(4):249-59.

Husbandry and observation methods of a breeding colony of marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus) for behavioural research.

Ingram JC.

By allowing families to increase in size, co-operation between parents and
adolescents in infant care was encouraged. Young adult pairs were subsequently
created with these marmosets which had experience of handling infants to provide 
a stable basis for breeding 2nd and 3rd generation marmosets in captivity.

DOI: 10.1258/002367775780957205 
PMID: 173918  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4907. J Virol. 1975 Sep;16(3):486-97.

Mitochondrial and herpesvirus-specific deoxypyrimidine kinases.

Leung WC, Dubbs DR, Trkula D, Kit S.

To characterize and compare the thymidine (TdR) and deoxycytidine (CdR) kinase
isozymes of uninfected and herpesvirus-infected cells: (i) the subcellular
distribution of the isozymes has been studied; (ii) a specific assay for CdR
kinase has been devised; (iii) the TdR kinase isozymes have been partially
purified; and (iv) the purified enzymes have been analyzed by disc polyacrylamide
gel electrophoresis, isoelectric focusing, and glycerol gradient centrifugation
and by substrate competition and dCTP inhibition studies. The results indicate
that there are interesting individual differences with respect to nucleoside
acceptor specificity between the cytosol and mitochondrial pyrimidine
deoxyribonucleoside kinases of uninfected cells and between the enzymes induced
by different herpesviruses. In the cytosol of uninfected mouse, chicken, and owl 
monkey kidney cells, two different proteins, TdR kinase F and CdR kinase 2,
catalyze the phosphorylations of TdR and CdR, respectively. TdR kinase F does not
phosphorylate CdR, nor does CdR kinase 2 phosphorylate TdR. A second TdR kinase
isozyme present in HeLa(BU25) mitochondria (TdR kinase B) also lacks CdR
phosphorylating activity. In contrast, a genetically distinctive deoxypyrimidine 
kinase (TdR kinase A) of mouse, human, and chick mitochondria catalyzes the
phosphorylation of both TdR and CdT. Three herpesviruses, marmoset herpesvirus
and herpes simplex virus types 1 and 2, induce in the cytosol fraction of LM(TK-)
mouse cells isozymes which share common properties with mitochondrial TdR kinase 
A, including the ability to catalyze the phosphorylation of both TdR and CdR.
However, the herpesvirus-induced deoxypyrimidine kinases differ from
mitochondrial TdR kinase A with respect to sedimentation coefficient, sensitivity
to dCTP inhibition, and antigenic determinants. The herpesvirus-specific and the 
mitochondrial deoxypyrimidine kinases exhibit a preference for TdR over CdR as
nucleoside acceptor. Pseudorabies virus and herpesvirus of turkeys induce cytosol
TdR kinases resembling the other herpesvirus-induced TdR kinases in several
properties, but like cellular TdR kinase F, the pseudorabies virus and
herpesvirus of turkeys TdR kinases lack detectable CdR phosphorylating
activities. Finally, a marmoset herpesvirus nutant resistant to
bromodeoxyuridine, equine herpesvirus type 1, and Herpesvirus aotus induces
neither TdR nor CdR phosphorylating enzymes during productive infections.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.16.3.486-497.1975 
PMCID: PMC354695
PMID: 169387  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

