

4911. J Endocrinol. 1975 Jun;65(3):1P.

Proceedings: The endocrinology of the ovarian cycle and of pregnancy in the
marmoset monkey, Callithrix jaccus.

Hearn JP, Lunn SF.


PMID: 807666  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4912. J Parasitol. 1975 Apr;61(2):360-8.

Two new species and new records of nasal mites of the genus Sternostoma (Acarina:
Rhinonyssinae) from birds in Texas.

Pence DB, Casto S.

Two new species and new host and locality records are established for nasal mites
of the genus Sternostoma from birds in Texas. Sternostoma tracheacolum Lawrence
is reported for the first time from Pipilo fuscus and Pyrrhuloxia sinuata,
respectively. Additionally, a new host record for Sternostoma porteri Hyland from
Centurus aurifrons and a new locality record for Sternostoma pirangae Pence from 
Piranga rubra are established. A redescription is provided for Sternostoma augei 
Amaral from Speotyto cunicularia. Sternostoma crotophagae sp. n. is described
from Crotophaga sulcirostris. It differs from the other species of the genus by
the heavily sclerotized margins of the anal plate and tiny cribrum, the two small
rounded bifuractions of the movable digit of the chelicerae, abscence of dorsal
opisthosomal setae (J, Z, and R series), and chaetotaxy of tarsi II, III, and IV 
which have only 3 ventral club-shaped setae in the distal row (al1, av2, and pl1 
with pv1 apparently absent) and 2 club-shaped setae in the more proximal row (al2
and av3 with pv3 modified into a spinelike seta in the more proximal row and al2 
and av3 with pv3 modified into a spinelike seta having an enlarged base and pl2
shorter and with a rounded tip). Sternostoma sayornis sp. n. is described from
Sayornis nigricans. The new species is most similar to Sternostoma hedonophilum
Fain but differs in the absence of enlarged punctate areas around the stigmata, 5
additional pairs of seta on dorsal opisthosoma (Z and R series), absence of
gnathosomal and capitular setae, and slight differences in the leg chaetotaxy
with al1 and pl1 on tarsi II, III, and IV very long and whip-like and slight
differences in the solenidia on and adjacent to the sensorial area of tarsus I.
The host-parasite relationships and affinities of the species of Sternostoma from
the host family Tyrannidae are briefly discussed and Sternostoma callithrix Fain 
and Aitken is reduced as a synonym of Sternostoma longisetosa Hyland on the basis
of their existing descriptions.


PMID: 1127568  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

