

4912. J Parasitol. 1975 Apr;61(2):360-8.

Two new species and new records of nasal mites of the genus Sternostoma (Acarina:
Rhinonyssinae) from birds in Texas.

Pence DB, Casto S.

Two new species and new host and locality records are established for nasal mites
of the genus Sternostoma from birds in Texas. Sternostoma tracheacolum Lawrence
is reported for the first time from Pipilo fuscus and Pyrrhuloxia sinuata,
respectively. Additionally, a new host record for Sternostoma porteri Hyland from
Centurus aurifrons and a new locality record for Sternostoma pirangae Pence from 
Piranga rubra are established. A redescription is provided for Sternostoma augei 
Amaral from Speotyto cunicularia. Sternostoma crotophagae sp. n. is described
from Crotophaga sulcirostris. It differs from the other species of the genus by
the heavily sclerotized margins of the anal plate and tiny cribrum, the two small
rounded bifuractions of the movable digit of the chelicerae, abscence of dorsal
opisthosomal setae (J, Z, and R series), and chaetotaxy of tarsi II, III, and IV 
which have only 3 ventral club-shaped setae in the distal row (al1, av2, and pl1 
with pv1 apparently absent) and 2 club-shaped setae in the more proximal row (al2
and av3 with pv3 modified into a spinelike seta in the more proximal row and al2 
and av3 with pv3 modified into a spinelike seta having an enlarged base and pl2
shorter and with a rounded tip). Sternostoma sayornis sp. n. is described from
Sayornis nigricans. The new species is most similar to Sternostoma hedonophilum
Fain but differs in the absence of enlarged punctate areas around the stigmata, 5
additional pairs of seta on dorsal opisthosoma (Z and R series), absence of
gnathosomal and capitular setae, and slight differences in the leg chaetotaxy
with al1 and pl1 on tarsi II, III, and IV very long and whip-like and slight
differences in the solenidia on and adjacent to the sensorial area of tarsus I.
The host-parasite relationships and affinities of the species of Sternostoma from
the host family Tyrannidae are briefly discussed and Sternostoma callithrix Fain 
and Aitken is reduced as a synonym of Sternostoma longisetosa Hyland on the basis
of their existing descriptions.


PMID: 1127568  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4913. Z Tierpsychol. 1975 Apr;37(3):255-73.

Some aspects of sexuality and reproduction in groups of captive marmosets
(Callitbrix jacchus).

Rothe H.

Several aspects of sexual and reproductive behaviour of Callithrix jacchus were
studied for almost five years. The most important results are as follows: (1) In 
artificial groups (AG), heterosexual interactions were observed with varying
frequencies between all group members; in the family groups (FG), however only
between the parents (a-male and a-female). (2) In general, sexual interactions
between two animals in the AG were tolerated by the other group members; in the
FG, the offspring tried to disturb all copulations between the parents. (3) Pre- 
and postcopulatory play, and copulation with intromission and ejaculation are
limited to the highest ranking group members. No difference was found between the
highest and lower ranking males in the duration of copulation and number of
pelvic thrusts. (4) The breeding privilege is correlated with rankorder; that is,
only the most dominant male and female reproduce. This gives the impression of a 
monogamous relationship between the a-animals. (5) Independent of follicle
maturation and ovulation, the a-females indicate estrous characterized by a
considerable increase in willingness to copulate, associative behaviour between
the a-male and the a-female (both most likely influenced or caused by pheromone
activity), as well as aggressive behaviour between the a-female and the lower
ranking females in the AG. Conflicts between the dominant and lower ranking group
members, especially the females in AG, usually cause the group to split. The
ability of the lower ranking females to reproduce is adversely affected by the
stress to which they are subjected. (6) The parents of the FG are extremely
tolerant of their sexually mature adult sons and daughters; expulsion of
offspringe by the parents has not occurred as yet in the FG. (7) There is no
certain evidence of cyclic visible changes of the genital region or menstrual
bleeding in C. jacchus. (8) Captive C. jacchus females breed all year long;
gestation is 144--146 days. (9) Homo- and autosexuality is reported for the males
of the FG.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1439-0310.1975.tb00880.x 
PMID: 821267  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

