

4925. Dev Biol Stand. 1975;30:229-35.

Infectivity studies of hepatitis A and B in non-human primates.

Maynard JE, Krushak DH, Bradley DW, Berquist KR.

We have induced hepatitis A in marmosets of the subspecies Saguinus mystax
following primary inoculation with human serum containing the MS-1 strain of
hepatitis A virus (HAV) and in 3 further marmoset subpassages using infective
marmoset serum from each preceding passage. In each passage acquisition of serum 
antibody against 17 nm virus-like particles recovered from acute illness stools
of human volunteers who developed hepatitis following inoculation with the MS-1
strain of HAV, as well as from acute illness stools of hepatitis A cases from a
common source epidemic of heaptitis A in Arizona could be demonstrated by immune 
electron microscopy (IEM). Particle-containing stool filtrates from the latter
epidemic also induced hepatitis in chimpanzees after intravenous inoculation.
Inoculation of partially purified particles from a single banding in CsCl2 has
further resulted in the induction of hepatitis in S. mystax marmosets. We have
successfully induced hepatitis in a series of chimpanzees inoculated with sera
containing hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) of varying subspecificities.
Susceptibility appears universal in animals who are initially lacking in serum
antibody (anti-HBs) and antibody induced following experimental infection is
homologous in subspecificity to the subspecificities of the antigenic coat
components of the HBsAg in the inoculum. Results of cross challenge experiments
indicate that animals developing hepatitis following inoculation of HBsAg of one 
subspecificity set in the d/y-w/r system do not again develop hepatitis following
inoculation with HBsAg of the alternate subspecificity set.


PMID: 173599  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4926. Acta Anat (Basel). 1975;92(3):385-410.

Histochemical localization of enzyme activity in the kidneys of male marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus and Callithrix penicillata).

Miraglia T, Chavarria Irusta VR, Castro Filho BG, Pinto G.

The distribution of several hydrolases and oxidoreductases was studied in the
renal parenchyma of adult male marmosets (Callithrix jacchus and Callithrix
penicillata). The oxidative enzymes showed a high reactivity in the proximal and 
distal tubules, whereas the hydrolases reacted strongly in the proximal tubules
but only weakly or not at all in the thick limb of Henle's loop, distal tubules
and collecting ducts. The NAD-dependent enzymes (except alpha-GPDH) showed a
stronger reactivity in the proximal tubules, while the NADP-dependent ones were
more reactive in the thick limb of Henle's loop and distal convoluted tubules.
Two groups of interstitial cells were found in the medulla. A first group inside 
the outer medulla, showing cells rich in acid phosphatase and nonspecific
esterases and a second group, close to the papilla, reactive to a certain number 
of oxidative enzymes. A different reactivity in cells of the distal convoluted
tubules, thick limb of Henle's loops and collecting ducts (dark cells) was seen
in the case of some enzymes like nonspecific esterase, alpha-GPDH and SDH.


PMID: 169663  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

