

4926. Acta Anat (Basel). 1975;92(3):385-410.

Histochemical localization of enzyme activity in the kidneys of male marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus and Callithrix penicillata).

Miraglia T, Chavarria Irusta VR, Castro Filho BG, Pinto G.

The distribution of several hydrolases and oxidoreductases was studied in the
renal parenchyma of adult male marmosets (Callithrix jacchus and Callithrix
penicillata). The oxidative enzymes showed a high reactivity in the proximal and 
distal tubules, whereas the hydrolases reacted strongly in the proximal tubules
but only weakly or not at all in the thick limb of Henle's loop, distal tubules
and collecting ducts. The NAD-dependent enzymes (except alpha-GPDH) showed a
stronger reactivity in the proximal tubules, while the NADP-dependent ones were
more reactive in the thick limb of Henle's loop and distal convoluted tubules.
Two groups of interstitial cells were found in the medulla. A first group inside 
the outer medulla, showing cells rich in acid phosphatase and nonspecific
esterases and a second group, close to the papilla, reactive to a certain number 
of oxidative enzymes. A different reactivity in cells of the distal convoluted
tubules, thick limb of Henle's loops and collecting ducts (dark cells) was seen
in the case of some enzymes like nonspecific esterase, alpha-GPDH and SDH.


PMID: 169663  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4927. Acta Anat (Basel). 1975;91(1):57-70.

Histochemical data on the liver of the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Miraglia T, Siqueira LA, Gorini D, Pinto G.

The histochemistry of the hepatic parenchymal cells was studied in four
Callithrix jacchus. A large amount of glycogen was noted throughout the lobules
while the UDPG-GT and the phosphorylases were found unevenly distributed by the
hepatic strands with different degrees of reactivity. Near the central vein one
of the livers showed PAS-positive nuclear corpuscles that were more conspicuous
in the hepatic cells with a larger amount of cytoplasmic glycogen and weaker
UDPG-GT and phosphorylase reactivities. G-6PA (in a larger amount) and LDH (in a 
moderate amount) were found evenly distributed in the hepatic strands. F-1-6PA
was seen sometimes with a stronger reactivity at the peripheral part of the
lobules. The enzymes of the pentose shunt (G-6PDH, 6-PGDH and NADPH-2-TR) reacted
strongly and as a rule evenly distributed near the hepatic lobules. Occasionally 
they reacted more intensely in the row of hepatic cells disposed just around the 
central vein. Cytochrome oxidase showed a very faint reaction. Cis-aconitase and 
ICDH were weak or moderate. NADH-2-TR more than SDH more than MDH were seen
frequently diffused near the hepatic strands. SDH and MDH in some instances
showed a stronger reactivity in the row or group of hepatic cells around the
central vein. ATPase at pH 6.3 was negative in the marmoset liver; ATPase at pH
7.4 was mainly found in the wall of the portal area vessels; ATPase at pH 8.5
showed a stronger reactivity in the cytoplasm of the hepatic cells and ATPase at 
pH 9.4 was more abundant in the bile capillaries. The reactivity of the lipid
metabolism enzymes was moderate with regard to alpha-GPDH or negligible with
regard to beta-OHBDH. Acid phosphatase showed a stronger reaction, but almost
limited to the Kupffer cells. The hepatic cells showed only a moderate amount of 
RNA. Some enzymes of the protein metabolism, such as GDH and leucine
aminopeptidase showed a stronger reactivity while some others, such as alanyl
aminopeptidase and MAO, were seen diffused near the hepatic lobules in a small
amount. Enzymes of the mucopolysaccharide metabolism were not found at all
(beta-glucuronidase) or showed only a weak reactivity, such as xylitol
dehydrogenase.


PMID: 166544  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

