

493. PLoS Pathog. 2019 May 21;15(5):e1007803. doi: 10.1371/journal.ppat.1007803.
eCollection 2019 May.

Histamine release from intestinal mast cells induced by staphylococcal
enterotoxin A (SEA) evokes vomiting reflex in common marmoset.

Ono HK(1)(2), Hirose S(1)(3), Narita K(1)(4), Sugiyama M(5), Asano K(1)(3), Hu
DL(2), Nakane A(1)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Hirosaki University Graduate School
of Medicine, Hirosaki, Japan.
(2)Department of Zoonoses, Kitasato University School of Veterinary Medicine,
Towada, Aomori, Japan.
(3)Department of Biopolymer and Health Science, Hirosaki University Graduate
School of Medicine, Hirosaki, Japan.
(4)Institute for Animal Experimentation, Hirosaki University Graduate School of
Medicine, Hirosaki, Japan.
(5)Department of Veterinary Anatomy, Kitasato University School of Veterinary
Medicine, Towada, Japan.

Staphylococcal enterotoxins (SEs) produced by Staphylococcus aureus are known as 
causative agents of emetic food poisoning. We previously demonstrated that SEA
binds with submucosal mast cells and evokes mast cell degranulation in a small
emetic house musk shrew model. Notably, primates have been recognized as the
standard model for emetic assays and analysis of SE emetic activity. However, the
mechanism involved in SEA-induced vomiting in primates has not yet been
elucidated. In the present study, we established common marmosets as an emetic
animal model. Common marmosets were administered classical SEs, including SEA,
SEB and SEC, and exhibited multiple vomiting responses. However, a non-emetic
staphylococcal superantigen, toxic shock syndrome toxin-1, did not induce emesis 
in these monkeys. These results indicated that the common marmoset is a useful
animal model for assessing the emesis-inducing activity of SEs. Furthermore,
histological analysis uncovered that SEA bound with submucosal mast cells and
induced mast cell degranulation. Additionally, ex vivo and in vivo
pharmacological results showed that SEA-induced histamine release plays a
critical role in the vomiting response in common marmosets. The present results
suggested that 5-hydroxytryptamine also plays an important role in the
transmission of emetic stimulation on the afferent vagus nerve or central nervous
system. We conclude that SEA induces histamine release from submucosal mast cells
in the gastrointestinal tract and that histamine contributes to the SEA-induced
vomiting reflex via the serotonergic nerve and/or other vagus nerve.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.ppat.1007803 
PMCID: PMC6546250
PMID: 31112582  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.


494. Neuroimage. 2019 Sep;198:44-52. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2019.05.023. Epub 2019 
May 17.

Microelectrode array electrical impedance tomography for fast functional imaging 
in the thalamus.

Zhu D(1), McEwan A(1), Eiber C(2).

Author information: 
(1)School of Electrical and Information Engineering, The University of Sydney,
Camperdown, NSW, Australia.
(2)Save Sight Institute, The University of Sydney, 8 Macquarie St, Sydney, NSW,
Australia; School of Medical Sciences, University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW,
Australia; Australian Research Council Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain
Function, Australia. Electronic address: calvin.eiber@sydney.edu.au.

Electrical Impedance Tomography (EIT) has the potential to be able to observe
functional tomographic images of neural activity in the brain at millisecond
time-scales. Prior modelling and experimental work has shown that EIT is capable 
of imaging impedance changes from neural depolarisation in rat somatosensory
cortex. Here, we investigate the feasibility of EIT for imaging impedance changes
using a stereotaxically implanted microelectrode array in the thalamus.
Microelectrode array EIT was simulated using an anatomically accurate marmoset
brain model. Impedance imaging was validated and detectability estimated using
physiological noise recorded from the marmoset visual thalamus. The results
suggest that visual-input-driven impedance changes in visual subcortical bodies
within 300 μm of the implanted array could be reliably reconstructed and
localised, comparable to local field potential measurements. Furthermore, we
demonstrated that microelectrode array EIT could reconstruct concurrent activity 
in multiple subcortical bodies simultaneously.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2019.05.023 
PMID: 31108212  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

