

50. Elife. 2021 Nov 1;10. pii: e68837. doi: 10.7554/eLife.68837.

Fast and accurate annotation of acoustic signals with deep neural networks.

Steinfath E(1)(2), Palacios-Muñoz A(1)(2), Rottschäfer JR(1)(2), Yuezak D(1)(2), 
Clemens J(1)(3).

Author information: 
(1)European Neuroscience Institute - A Joint Initiative of the University Medical
Center Göttingen and the Max-Planck-Society, Göttingen, Germany.
(2)International Max Planck Research School and Göttingen Graduate School for
Neurosciences, Biophysics, and Molecular Biosciences (GGNB) at the University of 
Göttingen, Göttingen, Germany.
(3)Bernstein Center for Computational Neuroscience, Göttingen, Germany.

Acoustic signals serve communication within and across species throughout the
animal kingdom. Studying the genetics, evolution, and neurobiology of acoustic
communication requires annotating acoustic signals: segmenting and identifying
individual acoustic elements like syllables or sound pulses. To be useful,
annotations need to be accurate, robust to noise, and fast.We here introduce
DeepAudioSegmenter (DAS), a method that annotates acoustic signals across species
based on a deep-learning derived hierarchical presentation of sound. We
demonstrate the accuracy, robustness, and speed of DAS using acoustic signals
with diverse characteristics from insects, birds, and mammals. DAS comes with a
graphical user interface for annotating song, training the network, and for
generating and proofreading annotations. The method can be trained to annotate
signals from new species with little manual annotation and can be combined with
unsupervised methods to discover novel signal types. DAS annotates song with high
throughput and low latency for experimental interventions in realtime. Overall,
DAS is a universal, versatile, and accessible tool for annotating acoustic
communication signals.

© 2021, Steinfath et al.

DOI: 10.7554/eLife.68837 
PMCID: PMC8560090
PMID: 34723794  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: ES, AP, JR, DY No competing interests declared


51. J Neurosci Res. 2021 Dec;99(12):3121-3147. doi: 10.1002/jnr.24967. Epub 2021 Oct 
29.

Light microscopic and heterogeneity analysis of astrocytes in the common marmoset
brain.

Muñoz Y(1), Cuevas-Pacheco F(2)(3), Quesseveur G(1), Murai KK(1)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Research in Neuroscience, Department of Neurology & Neurosurgery,
Brain Repair and Integrative Neuroscience Program, Research Institute of the
McGill University Health Centre, Montreal General Hospital, Montreal, QC, Canada.
(2)Department of Mathematics, Universidad Técnica Federico Santa Maria,
Valparaiso, Chile.
(3)Advanced Center for Electrical and Electronic Engineering, Universidad Técnica
Federico Santa Maria, Valparaiso, Chile.
(4)Quantitative Life Sciences Graduate Program, McGill University, Montreal, QC, 
Canada.

Astrocytes are abundant cells of the central nervous system (CNS) and are
involved in processes including synapse formation/function, ion homeostasis,
neurotransmitter uptake, and neurovascular coupling. Recent evidence indicates
that astrocytes show diverse molecular, structural, and physiological properties 
within the CNS. This heterogeneity is reflected in differences in astrocyte
structure, gene expression, functional properties, and responsiveness to
injury/pathological conditions. Deeper investigation of astrocytic heterogeneity 
is needed to understand how astrocytes are configured to enable diverse roles in 
the CNS. While much has been learned about astrocytic heterogeneity in rodents,
much less is known about astrocytic heterogeneity in the primate brain where
astrocytes have greater size and complexity. The common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus) is a promising non-human primate model because of similarities between
marmosets and humans with respect to genetics, brain anatomy, and
cognition/behavior. Here, we investigated the molecular and structural
heterogeneity of marmoset astrocytes using an array of astrocytic markers,
multi-label confocal microscopy, and quantitative analysis. We used male and
female marmosets and found that marmoset astrocytes show differences in
expression of astrocytic markers in cortex, hippocampus, and cerebellum. These
differences were accompanied by intra-regional variation in expression of markers
for glutamate/GABA transporters, and potassium and water channels. Differences in
astrocyte structure were also found, along with complex interactions with blood
vessels, microglia, and neurons. This study contributes to our knowledge of the
cellular and molecular features of marmoset astrocytes and is useful for
understanding the complex properties of astrocytes in the primate CNS.

© 2021 The Authors. Journal of Neuroscience Research published by Wiley
Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/jnr.24967 
PMID: 34716617 

