

512. J Comp Psychol. 2019 Nov;133(4):474-487. doi: 10.1037/com0000169. Epub 2019 Apr
15.

Food sharing patterns in three species of callitrichid monkeys (Callithrix
jacchus, Leontopithecus chrysomelas, Saguinus midas): Individual and species
differences.

Guerreiro Martins EM(1), Moura ACA(2), Finkenwirth C(1), Griesser M(3), Burkart
JM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anthropology.
(2)Departamento de Engenharia e Meio Ambiente.
(3)Department of Evolutionary Biology and Environmental Studies.

Food sharing (FS) in cooperatively breeding callitrichids is unusual among
nonhuman primates because they regularly share significant amounts of preferred
food with immatures and engage in proactive FS. However, it is still unclear
which classes of individuals (males or females, breeders or helpers) engage most 
in FS, and whether differences exist among callitrichid species. In the first
part of this study, we characterized general FS patterns in common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus). We found substantial adult-immature FS, and female breeders
shared the least with immatures. This conflicts with previously published
studies, where data were collected with the prevailing standard method of
providing a food bowl to the entire group. In the second part, a comparison of
our access-bias-free method and the standard method suggested that previous
findings are likely the result of access bias. In the third part, we investigated
species differences in adult-adult FS among common marmosets, golden-headed lion 
tamarins (Leontopithecus chrysomelas), and red-handed tamarins (Saguinus midas). 
As common marmosets show lower levels of interdependence within groups, we
expected more adult-adult FS in tamarins compared with marmosets. Adult-adult FS 
was indeed more prevalent in tamarins and not exclusively directed from male
breeders to female breeders. Therefore, our results suggest that adult-adult FS
in marmosets mostly reflects the high energetic demands of female breeders,
whereas in the more interdependent tamarins, it may be used to reinforce
cooperative bonds between adult group members. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2019
APA, all rights reserved).

DOI: 10.1037/com0000169 
PMID: 30985161  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


513. Front Neuroanat. 2019 Mar 27;13:36. doi: 10.3389/fnana.2019.00036. eCollection
2019.

Cyto- and Myelo-Architecture of the Amygdaloid Complex of the Common Marmoset
Monkey (Callithrix jacchus).

Araújo Góis Morais PL(1)(2), García-Amado M(2), Lima RRM(1), Córdoba-Claros A(2),
Souza Cavalcante J(3), Clascá F(2), Nascimento ES Jr(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Morphology, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, 
Brazil.
(2)Department of Anatomy & Neuroscience, School of Medicine, Autonoma de Madrid
University, Madrid, Spain.
(3)Department of Physiology, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, 
Brazil.

The amygdaloid complex (AC) is a heterogeneous aggregate of nuclei located in the
rostromedial region of the temporal lobe. In addition to being partly connected
among themselves, the AC nuclei are strongly interconnected with the cerebral
cortex, striatum, basal forebrain, hypothalamus and brainstem. Animal and human
functional studies have established that the AC is a central hub of the neuronal 
networks supporting emotional responsivity, particularly its negative/aversive
components. Dysfunction of AC circuits in humans has been implicated in anxiety, 
depression, schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. The small New-World marmoset
monkey (Callithrix jacchus) has recently become a key model for neuroscience
research. However, the nuclear and fiber tract organization of marmoset AC has
not been examined in detail. Thus, the extent to which it can be compared to the 
AC of Old-World (human and macaque) primates is yet unclear. Here, using Nissl
and acetylcholinesterase (AChE) histochemical stains as a reference, we analyzed 
the cytoarchitecture and nuclear parcellation of the marmoset AC. In addition,
given the increasing relevance of tractographic localization for high-resolution 
in vivo imaging studies in non-human primates, we also identified the myelin
fiber tracts present within and around the AC as revealed by the Gallyas method. 
The present study provides a detailed atlas of marmoset AC. Moreover, it reveals 
that, despite phylogenetic distance and brain size differences, every nucleus and
myelinated axon bundle described in human and macaque studies can be confidently 
recognized in marmosets.

DOI: 10.3389/fnana.2019.00036 
PMCID: PMC6446959
PMID: 30971903 

