

526. PLoS One. 2019 Mar 20;14(3):e0213727. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0213727.
eCollection 2019.

Does opportunistic testing bias cognitive performance in primates? Learning from 
drop-outs.

Schubiger MN(1)(2), Kissling A(1), Burkart JM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anthropology, Evolutionary Cognition Group, University of
Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland.
(2)School of Social and Health Sciences, Division of Psychology, Abertay
University, Dundee, Scotland, United Kingdom.

Dropouts are a common issue in cognitive tests with non-human primates. One main 
reason for dropouts is that researchers often face a trade-off between obtaining 
a sufficiently large sample size and logistic restrictions, such as limited
access to testing facilities. The commonly-used opportunistic testing approach
deals with this trade-off by only testing those individuals who readily
participate and complete the cognitive tasks within a given time frame. All other
individuals are excluded from further testing and data analysis. However, it is
unknown if this approach merely excludes subjects who are not consistently
motivated to participate, or if these dropouts systematically differ in cognitive
ability. If the latter holds, the selection bias resulting from opportunistic
testing would systematically affect performance scores and thus comparisons
between individuals and species. We assessed the potential effects of
opportunistic testing on cognitive performance in common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus) and squirrel monkeys (Saimiri sciureus) with a test battery consisting
of six cognitive tests: two inhibition tasks (Detour Reaching and A-not-B), one
cognitive flexibility task (Reversal Learning), one quantity discrimination task,
and two memory tasks. Importantly, we used a full testing approach in which
subjects were given as much time as they required to complete each task. For each
task, we then compared the performance of subjects who completed the task within 
the expected number of testing days with those subjects who needed more testing
time. We found that the two groups did not differ in task performance, and
therefore opportunistic testing would have been justified without risking biased 
results. If our findings generalise to other species, maximising sample sizes by 
only testing consistently motivated subjects will be a valid alternative whenever
full testing is not feasible.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0213727 
PMCID: PMC6426242
PMID: 30893340  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.


527. Genome Biol Evol. 2019 Apr 1;11(4):1105-1116. doi: 10.1093/gbe/evz062.

Amplification Dynamics of Platy-1 Retrotransposons in the Cebidae Platyrrhine
Lineage.

Storer JM(1), Mierl JR(1), Brantley SA(1), Threeton B(1), Sukharutski Y(1),
Rewerts LC(1), St Romain CP(1), Foreman MM(1), Baker JN(1), Walker JA(1), Orkin
JD(2), Melin AD(2)(3), Phillips KA(4)(5), Konkel MK(1)(6), Batzer MA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Louisiana State University.
(2)Department of Anthropology and Archaeology & Department of Medical Genetics,
University of Calgary, Alberta, Canada.
(3)Alberta Children's Hospital Research Institute, N.W. Calgary, Alberta, Canada.
(4)Department of Psychology, Trinity University.
(5)Southwest National Primate Research Center, Texas Biomedical Research
Institute, San Antonio, Texas.
(6)Department of Genetics & Biochemistry, Clemson University.

Platy-1 elements are Platyrrhine-specific, short interspersed elements originally
discovered in the Callithrix jacchus (common marmoset) genome. To date, only the 
marmoset genome has been analyzed for Platy-1 repeat content. Here, we report
full-length Platy-1 insertions in other New World monkey (NWM) genomes (Saimiri
boliviensis, squirrel monkey; Cebus imitator, capuchin monkey; and Aotus
nancymaae, owl monkey) and analyze the amplification dynamics of lineage-specific
Platy-1 insertions. A relatively small number of full-length and lineage-specific
Platy-1 elements were found in the squirrel, capuchin, and owl monkey genomes
compared with the marmoset genome. In addition, only a few older Platy-1
subfamilies were recovered in this study, with no Platy-1 subfamilies younger
than Platy-1-6. By contrast, 62 Platy-1 subfamilies were discovered in the
marmoset genome. All of the lineage-specific insertions found in the squirrel and
capuchin monkeys were fixed present. However, ∼15% of the lineage-specific
Platy-1 loci in Aotus were polymorphic for insertion presence/absence. In
addition, two new Platy-1 subfamilies were identified in the owl monkey genome
with low nucleotide divergences compared with their respective consensus
sequences, suggesting minimal ongoing retrotransposition in the Aotus genus and
no current activity in the Saimiri, Cebus, and Sapajus genera. These comparative 
analyses highlight the finding that the high number of Platy-1 elements
discovered in the marmoset genome is an exception among NWM analyzed thus far,
rather than the rule. Future studies are needed to expand upon our knowledge of
Platy-1 amplification in other NWM genomes.

© The Author(s) 2019. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the
Society for Molecular Biology and Evolution.

DOI: 10.1093/gbe/evz062 
PMCID: PMC6464705
PMID: 30888417  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

