

527. Genome Biol Evol. 2019 Apr 1;11(4):1105-1116. doi: 10.1093/gbe/evz062.

Amplification Dynamics of Platy-1 Retrotransposons in the Cebidae Platyrrhine
Lineage.

Storer JM(1), Mierl JR(1), Brantley SA(1), Threeton B(1), Sukharutski Y(1),
Rewerts LC(1), St Romain CP(1), Foreman MM(1), Baker JN(1), Walker JA(1), Orkin
JD(2), Melin AD(2)(3), Phillips KA(4)(5), Konkel MK(1)(6), Batzer MA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Louisiana State University.
(2)Department of Anthropology and Archaeology & Department of Medical Genetics,
University of Calgary, Alberta, Canada.
(3)Alberta Children's Hospital Research Institute, N.W. Calgary, Alberta, Canada.
(4)Department of Psychology, Trinity University.
(5)Southwest National Primate Research Center, Texas Biomedical Research
Institute, San Antonio, Texas.
(6)Department of Genetics & Biochemistry, Clemson University.

Platy-1 elements are Platyrrhine-specific, short interspersed elements originally
discovered in the Callithrix jacchus (common marmoset) genome. To date, only the 
marmoset genome has been analyzed for Platy-1 repeat content. Here, we report
full-length Platy-1 insertions in other New World monkey (NWM) genomes (Saimiri
boliviensis, squirrel monkey; Cebus imitator, capuchin monkey; and Aotus
nancymaae, owl monkey) and analyze the amplification dynamics of lineage-specific
Platy-1 insertions. A relatively small number of full-length and lineage-specific
Platy-1 elements were found in the squirrel, capuchin, and owl monkey genomes
compared with the marmoset genome. In addition, only a few older Platy-1
subfamilies were recovered in this study, with no Platy-1 subfamilies younger
than Platy-1-6. By contrast, 62 Platy-1 subfamilies were discovered in the
marmoset genome. All of the lineage-specific insertions found in the squirrel and
capuchin monkeys were fixed present. However, ∼15% of the lineage-specific
Platy-1 loci in Aotus were polymorphic for insertion presence/absence. In
addition, two new Platy-1 subfamilies were identified in the owl monkey genome
with low nucleotide divergences compared with their respective consensus
sequences, suggesting minimal ongoing retrotransposition in the Aotus genus and
no current activity in the Saimiri, Cebus, and Sapajus genera. These comparative 
analyses highlight the finding that the high number of Platy-1 elements
discovered in the marmoset genome is an exception among NWM analyzed thus far,
rather than the rule. Future studies are needed to expand upon our knowledge of
Platy-1 amplification in other NWM genomes.

© The Author(s) 2019. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the
Society for Molecular Biology and Evolution.

DOI: 10.1093/gbe/evz062 
PMCID: PMC6464705
PMID: 30888417  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


528. Neuroimage. 2019 Jun;193:126-138. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2019.03.023. Epub
2019 Mar 15.

Integrated radiofrequency array and animal holder design for minimizing head
motion during awake marmoset functional magnetic resonance imaging.

Schaeffer DJ(1), Gilbert KM(1), Hori Y(1), Gati JS(1), Menon RS(2), Everling
S(3).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Functional and Metabolic Mapping, Robarts Research Institute,
University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, Canada.
(2)Centre for Functional and Metabolic Mapping, Robarts Research Institute,
University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, Canada; Department of Physiology 
and Pharmacology, University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, Canada.
(3)Centre for Functional and Metabolic Mapping, Robarts Research Institute,
University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, Canada; Department of Physiology 
and Pharmacology, University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, Canada.
Electronic address: severlin@uwo.ca.

Marmosets are small New World primates that are posited to become an important
preclinical animal model for studying intractable human brain diseases. A
critical step in the development of marmosets as a viable model for human brain
dysfunction is to characterize brain networks that are homologous with human
network topologies. In this regard, the use of functional magnetic resonance
imaging (fMRI) holds tremendous potential for functional brain mapping in
marmosets. Although possible, implementation of hardware for fMRI in awake
marmosets (free of the confounding effects of anesthesia) is not trivial due to
the technical challenges associated with developing specialized imaging hardware.
Here, we describe the design and implementation of a marmoset holder and
head-fixation system with an integrated receive coil for awake marmoset fMRI.
This design minimized head motion, with less than 100  μm of translation and 0.5 
degrees of rotation over 15 consecutive resting state fMRI runs (at 15 min each) 
across 3 different marmosets. The fMRI data was of sufficient quality to reliably
extract 8 resting state networks from each animal with only 60-90 min of resting 
state fMRI acquisition per animal. The restraint system proved to be an efficient
and practical solution for securing an awake marmoset and positioning a receive
array within minutes, limiting stress to the animal. This design is also amenable
for multimodal imaging, allowing for electrode or lens placement above the skull 
via the open chamber design. All computer-aided-design (CAD) files and
engineering drawings are provided as an open resource, with the majority of the
parts designed to be 3D printed.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2019.03.023 
PMID: 30879997  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

