

539. Am J Primatol. 2019 Apr;81(4):e22964. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22964. Epub 2019 Feb 27.

Balancing contest competition, scramble competition, and social tolerance at
feeding sites in wild common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

De la Fuente MF(1), Schiel N(1), Bicca-Marques JC(2), Caselli CB(1), Souto A(3), 
Garber PA(4).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Biologia, Universidade Federal Rural de Pernambuco, Recife,
Brazil.
(2)Laboratório de Primatologia, Escola de Ciências, Pontifícia Universidade
Católica do Rio Grande do Sul, Porto Alegre, Brazil.
(3)Departamento de Zoologia, Universidade Federal de Pernambuco, Recife, Brazil.
(4)Department of Anthropology, Program in Ecology, Evolution, and Conservation
Biology, University of Illinois, Urbana, Illinois.

Models of primate sociality focus on the costs and benefits of group living and
how factors such as rank, feeding competition, alliance formation, and
cooperative behavior shape within-group social relationships. We conducted a
series of controlled field experiments designed to investigate how resource
distribution (one or three of four reward platforms) and amount of food on a
reward platform affected foraging strategies and individual feeding success in
four groups of wild common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) living in the Caatinga 
of northeastern Brazil. At our field site, common marmoset groups are
characterized by a single breeding female who can produce twin litters twice per 
year, strong social cohesion, and cooperative infant care provided principally by
several adult male helpers. We found that except for the dominant breeding
female, rank (based on aggression) was not a strong predictor of feeding success.
Although the breeding female in each group occupied the highest rank position and
obtained the greatest daily feeding success, all other group members, including
adults and juveniles experienced relatively equal feeding success across most
experimental conditions. This was accomplished using a balance of behavioral
strategies related to contest competition, scramble competition (associated with 
a finder's advantage), and social tolerance (sharing the same feeding platform). 
Based on these results, the social structure of common marmosets is best
described as "single female dominance," with the breeding female maximizing food 
intake needed to offset the energetic costs associated with reproductive twinning
and the ability to produce two litters per year. Cooperative infant caregiving,
in which the number of helpers is positively correlated with offspring
survivorship, requires a set of behavioral strategies that serve to reduce
contest competition and promote prosocial behaviors at feeding sites.

© 2019 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22964 
PMID: 30810248  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


540. Am J Primatol. 2019 Mar;81(3):e22963. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22963. Epub 2019 Feb 26.

Detection of insect prey by wild common marmosets: The effect of color vision.

Abreu F(1), Souto A(2), Bonci DMO(3), Mantovani V(3), Pessoa DMA(4), Schiel N(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Theoretical and Applied Ethology, Department of Biology, Federal
Rural University of Pernambuco, Recife, Brazil.
(2)Laboratory of Ethology, Department of Zoology, Federal University of
Pernambuco, Recife, Brazil.
(3)Laboratory of Psychophysiology, Department of Experimental Psychology,
University of São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil.
(4)Laboratory of Sensory Ecology, Department of Physiology and Behavior, Federal 
University of Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, Brazil.

Most species of New World primates have an unusual color vision pattern that can 
affect an individual's ability to detect food. Whereas males can only be
dichromatic, females can be either dichromatic or trichromatic. Trichromats are
expected to have an advantage in detecting conspicuous food whereas dichromats
should be better at locating cryptic resources. Here we aimed to understand how
color vision phenotype influences insect foraging by five groups of common
marmosets living in a semiarid environment. We recorded insect predation events, 
noting morphotype and color of the captured insect, and the substrate from which 
it was captured. Color modeling suggested that, for all values of chromatic
contrast resulting from comparing the measured insect-substrate pairs,
trichromats outperformed dichromats. Females showed an overall higher insect
capture rate than males. Females also showed a higher capture rate of conspicuous
insects but there was no sex difference for the capture of cryptic insects. When 
we compared only dichromatic individuals there was no difference between sexes.
These findings suggest that differences found in capture rate related not only to
sex but also to visual polymorphism and that the latter is a crucial factor
determining insect capture rate in common marmosets. Nevertheless, these results 
should be interpreted with caution because of the small number (three) of
dichromat females and the unknown phenotype of the remaining females. Our results
support the balancing selection hypothesis, suggesting that the advantage of one 
phenotype over the other may depend on environmental circumstances. This
hypothesis has recently been considered as the most plausible for the maintenance
of visual polymorphism in New World primates.

© 2019 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22963 
PMID: 30809840  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

