

549. J Vis Exp. 2019 Feb 1;(144). doi: 10.3791/58980.

Chronic Implantation of Whole-cortical Electrocorticographic Array in the Common 
Marmoset.

Komatsu M(1), Kaneko T(2), Okano H(2), Ichinohe N(3).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Molecular Analysis of Higher Brain Function, RIKEN Center for
Brain Science; mkomatsu@brain.riken.jp.
(2)Laboratory for Marmoset Neural Architecture, RIKEN Center for Brain Science;
Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine.
(3)Laboratory for Molecular Analysis of Higher Brain Function, RIKEN Center for
Brain Science; Department of Ultrastructural Research, National Center of
Neurology and Psychiatry.

Electrocorticography (ECoG) allows the monitoring of electrical field potentials 
from the cerebral cortex with high spatiotemporal resolution. Recent development 
of thin, flexible ECoG electrodes has enabled conduction of stable recordings of 
large-scale cortical activity. We have developed a whole-cortical ECoG array for 
the common marmoset. The array continuously covers almost the entire lateral
surface of cortical hemisphere, from the occipital pole to the temporal and
frontal poles, and it captures whole-cortical neural activity in one shot. This
protocol describes a chronic implantation procedure of the array in the epidural 
space of the marmoset brain. Marmosets have two advantages regarding ECoG
recordings, one being the homologous organization of anatomical structures in
humans and macaques, including frontal, parietal, and temporal complexes. The
other advantage is that the marmoset brain is lissencephalic and contains a large
number of complexes, which are more difficult to access in macaques with ECoG,
that are exposed to the brain surface.These features allow direct access to most 
cortical areas beneath the surface of the brain. This system provides an
opportunity to investigate global cortical information processing with high
resolutions at a sub-millisecond order in time and millimeter order in space.

DOI: 10.3791/58980 
PMID: 30774127  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


550. Hum Reprod. 2019 Mar 1;34(3):403-413. doi: 10.1093/humrep/dey373.

Complete spermatogenesis in intratesticular testis tissue xenotransplants from
immature non-human primate.

Ntemou E(1), Kadam P(1), Van Saen D(1), Wistuba J(2), Mitchell RT(3)(4), Schlatt 
S(2), Goossens E(1).

Author information: 
(1)Biology of the Testis Lab, Department of Reproduction, Genetics and
Regenerative Medicine, Vrije Universiteit Brussel (VUB), Brussels, Belgium.
(2)Centre of Reproductive Medicine and Andrology (CeRA), University of Münster,
Münster, Germany.
(3)MRC Centre for Reproductive Health, The University of Edinburgh, The Queen's
Medical Research Institute, Edinburgh, Scotland, UK.
(4)Edinburgh Royal Hospital for Sick Children, Edinburgh, Scotland, UK.

STUDY QUESTION: Can full spermatogenesis be achieved after xenotransplantation of
prepubertal primate testis tissue to the mouse, in testis or subcutaneously?
SUMMARY ANSWER: Intratesticular xenotransplantation supported the differentiation
of immature germ cells from marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) into spermatids and
spermatozoa at 4 and 9 months post-transplantation, while in subcutaneous
transplants, spermatogenic arrest was observed at 4 months and none of the
transplants survived at 9 months.
WHAT IS KNOWN ALREADY: Auto-transplantation of cryopreserved immature testis
tissue (ITT) could be a potential fertility restoration strategy for patients
with complete loss of germ cells due to chemo- and/or radiotherapy at a young
age. Before ITT transplantation can be used for clinical application, it is a
prerequisite to demonstrate the feasibility of the technique and identify the
conditions required for establishing spermatogenesis in primate ITT transplants. 
Although xenotransplantation of ITT from several species has resulted in complete
spermatogenesis, in human and marmoset, ITT has not been successful.
STUDY DESIGN, SIZE, DURATION: In this study, we used marmoset as a pre-clinical
animal model. ITT was obtained from two 6-month-old co-twin marmosets. A total of
147 testis tissue pieces (~0.8-1.0 mm3 each) were transplanted into the
testicular parenchyma (intratesticular; n = 40) or under the dorsal skin
(ectopic; n = 107) of 4-week-old immunodeficient Swiss Nu/Nu mice (n = 20). Each 
mouse received one single marmoset testis tissue piece in each testis and 4-6
pieces subcutaneously. Xenotransplants were retrieved at 4 and 9 months
post-transplantation and evaluations were performed with regards to transplant
survival, spermatogonial quantity and germ cell differentiation.
PARTICIPANTS/MATERIALS, SETTING, METHODS: Transplant survival was histologically 
evaluated by haematoxylin-periodic acid Schiff (H/PAS) staining. Spermatogonia
were identified by MAGE-A4 via immunohistochemistry. Germ cell differentiation
was assessed by morphological identification of different germ cell types on
H/PAS stained sections. Meiotically active germ cells were identified by BOLL
expression. CREM immunohistochemistry was performed to confirm the presence of
post-meiotic germ cells and ACROSIN was used to determine the presence of round, 
elongating and elongated spermatids.
MAIN RESULTS AND THE ROLE OF CHANCE: Four months post-transplantation, 50% of the
intratesticular transplants and 21% of the ectopic transplants were recovered (P 
= 0.019). The number of spermatogonia per tubule did not show any variation. In
33% of the recovered intratesticular transplants, complete spermatogenesis was
established. Overall, 78% of the intratesticular transplants showed post-meiotic 
differentiation (round spermatids, elongating/elongated spermatids and
spermatozoa). However, during the same period, spermatocytes (early meiotic germ 
cells) were the most advanced germ cell type present in the ectopic transplants. 
Nine months post-transplantation, 50% of the intratesticular transplants
survived, whilst none of the ectopic transplants was recovered (P < 0.0001).
Transplants contained more spermatogonia per tubule (P = 0.018) than at 4 months.
Complete spermatogenesis was observed in all recovered transplants (100%),
indicating a progressive spermatogenic development in intratesticular transplants
between the two time-points. Nine months post-transplantation, transplants
contained more seminiferous tubules with post-meiotic germ cells (37 vs. 5%; P < 
0.001) and fewer tubules without germ cells (2 vs. 8%; P = 0.014) compared to 4
months post-transplantation.
LARGE SCALE DATA: N/A.
LIMITATIONS, REASONS FOR CAUTION: Although xenotransplantation of marmoset ITT
was successful, it does not fully reflect all aspects of a future clinical
setting. Furthermore, due to ethical restrictions, we were not able to prove the 
functionality of the spermatozoa produced in the marmoset transplants.
WIDER IMPLICATIONS OF THE FINDINGS: In this pre-clinical study, we demonstrated
that testicular parenchyma provides the required microenvironment for germ cell
differentiation and long-term survival of immature marmoset testis tissue, likely
due to the favourable temperature regulation, growth factors and hormonal
support. These results encourage the design of new experiments on human ITT
xenotransplantation and show that intratesticular transplantation is likely to be
superior to ectopic transplantation for fertility restoration following
gonadotoxic treatment in childhood.
STUDY FUNDING/COMPETING INTEREST(S): This project was funded by the ITN Marie
Curie Programme 'Growsperm' (EU-FP7-PEOPLE-2013-ITN 603568) and the scientific
Fund Willy Gepts from the UZ Brussel (ADSI677). D.V.S. is a post-doctoral fellow 
of the Fonds Wetenschappelijk Onderzoek (FWO; 12M2815N). No conflict of interest 
is declared.

© The Author(s) 2019. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the
European Society of Human Reproduction and Embryology.

DOI: 10.1093/humrep/dey373 
PMCID: PMC6389866
PMID: 30753464  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

