

552. PLoS One. 2019 Feb 7;14(2):e0207560. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0207560.
eCollection 2019.

Characterization of oral microbiota in marmosets: Feasibility of using the
marmoset as a human oral disease model.

Takehara S(1)(2), Zeredo JL(3), Kumei Y(4), Kagiyama K(5), Fukasawa K(5), Oshiro 
A(2), Ueno M(2)(6), Kojimahara N(1), Minakuchi S(7), Kawaguchi Y(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Public Health, Tokyo Women's Medical University, Tokyo, Japan.
(2)Department of Oral Health Promotion, Graduate School of Medical and Dental
Sciences, Tokyo Medical and Dental University, Tokyo, Japan.
(3)Graduate Program in Health Sciences and Technology, University of Brasilia,
Brasilia, Brazil.
(4)Department of Biochemistry, Graduate School of Medical and Dental Sciences,
Tokyo Medical and Dental University, Tokyo, Japan.
(5)Clea Japan Inc., Gifu, Japan.
(6)Department of Health Sciences, Saitama Prefectural University, Saitama, Japan.
(7)Gerodontology and Oral Rehabilitation, Graduate School of Medical and Dental
Sciences, Tokyo Medical and Dental University, Tokyo, Japan.

With rapid aging of the world's population, the demand for research, for a better
understanding of aging and aging-related disorders, is increasing. Ideally, such 
research should be conducted on human subjects. However, due to ethical
considerations, animals such as rodents and monkeys are used as alternatives.
Among these alternative models, non-human primates are preferred because of their
similarities with humans. The small South American common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus) may offer several advantages over other non-human primates in terms of
its smaller size, shorter life-span, and dental anatomy identical to humans. The 
purpose of this study was to determine the viability of using the marmoset as a
human oral disease model. We collected saliva samples from eight marmosets and
eight human subjects. Prokaryotic DNA was extracted from the saliva samples, and 
16S bacterial rRNA gene sequencing was performed on each of the samples. Our
results indicated that the types of oral microbiomes detected among human and
marmoset samples were nearly indistinguishable. In contrast, the oral microbiomes
of our human and marmoset subjects were distinctly different from those reported 
for rats and dogs, which are currently popular research animals. The oral
microbiomes of marmosets showed greater diversity than those of humans. However, 
the oral microbiota of marmosets exhibited less variation than those of humans,
which may be attributed to the fact that the marmoset subjects were kept in a
controlled environment with identical lifestyles. The characteristics of its oral
microbiota, combined with other technical advantages, suggest that the marmoset
may provide the best animal model thus far for the study of oral health. This
study characterized the oral microbes of the marmoset, thereby providing
information to support future application of the marmoset as a model for
age-related oral disease.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0207560 
PMCID: PMC6366748
PMID: 30730898  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The following authors are affiliated with CLEA
Japan, Inc.: KK and KF. The commercial affiliation with CLEA Japan, Inc. does not
alter our adherence to PLOS ONE policies on sharing data and materials.


553. Mult Scler. 2020 Mar;26(3):284-293. doi: 10.1177/1352458518822408. Epub 2019 Feb 
7.

The spectrum of spinal cord lesions in a primate model of multiple sclerosis.

Lefeuvre JA(1), Guy JR(2), Luciano NJ(2), Ha SK(2), Leibovitch E(3), Santin
MD(4), Silva AC(5), Jacobson S(3), Lehéricy S(4), Reich DS(2), Sati P(2).

Author information: 
(1)Translational Neuroradiology Section, National Institute of Neurological
Disorders and Stroke, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, USA/Institut
du Cerveau et de la Moelle-ICM, Centre de NeuroImagerie de Recherche-CENIR,
Sorbonne Universités, Paris, France.
(2)Translational Neuroradiology Section, National Institute of Neurological
Disorders and Stroke, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, USA.
(3)Viral Immunology Section, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and
Stroke, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, USA.
(4)Institut du Cerveau et de la Moelle-ICM, Centre de NeuroImagerie de
Recherche-CENIR, Sorbonne Universités, Paris, France.
(5)Cerebral Microcirculation Section, Laboratory of Functional and Molecular
Imaging, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, USA.

BACKGROUND: Experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) in the common
marmoset is a nonhuman primate model of multiple sclerosis (MS) that shares
numerous clinical, radiological, and pathological features with MS. Among the
clinical features are motor and sensory deficits that are highly suggestive of
spinal cord (SC) damage.
OBJECTIVE: To characterize the extent and nature of SC damage in symptomatic
marmosets with EAE using a combined magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and
histopathology approach.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: SC tissues from five animals were scanned using 7 T MRI to
collect high-resolution ex vivo images. Lesions were segmented and classified
based on shape, size, and distribution along the SC. Tissues were processed for
histopathological characterization (myelin and microglia/macrophages).
Statistical analysis, using linear mixed-effects models, evaluated the
association between MRI and histopathology.
RESULTS: Marmosets with EAE displayed two types of SC lesions: focal and subpial 
lesions. Both lesion types were heterogeneous in size and configuration and
corresponded to areas of marked demyelination with high density of inflammatory
cells. Inside the lesions, the MRI signal was significantly correlated with
myelin content (p < 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings underscore the relevance of this nonhuman primate EAE
model for better understanding mechanisms of MS lesion formation in the SC.

DOI: 10.1177/1352458518822408 
PMCID: PMC6685769
PMID: 30730246  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

