

569. Cereb Cortex. 2019 Apr 1;29(4):1706-1718. doi: 10.1093/cercor/bhy327.

Thalamocortical Afferents Innervate the Cortical Subplate much Earlier in
Development in Primate than in Rodent.

Alzu'bi A(1)(2)(3), Homman-Ludiye J(4), Bourne JA(4), Clowry GJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Neuroscience, Newcastle University, Framlington Place, Newcastle 
upon Tyne, UK.
(2)Institute of Genetic Medicine, Newcastle University, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK.
(3)Department of Basic Medical Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, Yarmouk University,
Irbid, Jordan.
(4)Australian Regenerative Medicine Institute, Monash University, Clayton,
Victoria, Australia.

Erratum in
    Cereb Cortex. 2019 Dec 17;29(12):5316.

The current model, based on rodent data, proposes that thalamocortical afferents 
(TCA) innervate the subplate towards the end of cortical neurogenesis. This
implies that the laminar identity of cortical neurons is specified by intrinsic
instructions rather than information of thalamic origin. In order to determine
whether this mechanism is conserved in the primates, we examined the growth of
thalamocortical (TCA) and corticofugal afferents in early human and monkey fetal 
development. In the human, TCA, identified by secretagogin, calbindin, and ROBO1 
immunoreactivity, were observed in the internal capsule of the ventral
telencephalon as early as 7-7.5 PCW, crossing the pallial/subpallial boundary
(PSB) by 8 PCW before the calretinin immunoreactive corticofugal fibers do.
Furthermore, TCA were observed to be passing through the intermediate zone and
innervating the presubplate of the dorsolateral cortex, and already by 10-12 PCW 
TCAs were occupying much of the cortex. Observations at equivalent stages in the 
marmoset confirmed that this pattern is conserved across primates. Therefore, our
results demonstrate that in primates, TCAs innervate the cortical presubplate at 
earlier stages than previously demonstrated by acetylcholinesterase
histochemistry, suggesting that pioneer thalamic afferents may contribute to
early cortical circuitry that can participate in defining cortical neuron
phenotypes.

© The Author(s) 2019. Published by Oxford University Press.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhy327 
PMCID: PMC6418397
PMID: 30668846  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


570. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2019 Jan 2;60(1):331-344. doi: 10.1167/iovs.18-25536.

Distribution and Activity of Mitochondrial Proteins in Vascular and Avascular
Retinas: Implications for Retinal Metabolism.

Chidlow G(1), Wood JPM(1), Sia PI(1), Casson RJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Ophthalmic Research Laboratories, Discipline of Ophthalmology and Visual
Sciences, University of Adelaide, Adelaide, South Australia, Australia.

Purpose: Understanding the energetics of retinal neurons and glia is crucial for 
developing therapies for diseases that feature deficits in nutrient or oxygen
availability. Herein, we performed a detailed characterization of the
distribution and activity of mitochondrial proteins in the vascularized retinas
of rat and marmoset, and the avascular retinas of rabbit and guinea pig. Further,
we delineated expression of ubiquitous mitochondrial creatine kinase (uMtCK).
Methods: Expression of eight mitochondrial proteins was investigated using
Western blotting, single- and double-labeling immunohistochemistry. Activities of
cytochrome c oxidase, succinate dehydrgogenase, and isocitrate dehydrogenase were
determined by enzyme histochemistry using unfixed tissue sections.
Results: In vascularized retinas, immunoreactivities were characterized by
strong, punctate labeling in the plexiform layers, photoreceptor inner segments, 
somas of various cell types, notably retinal ganglion cells (RGCs), and the
basolateral surface of the retinal pigment epithelium. In avascular retinas,
immunoreactivities featured intense labeling of inner segments, together with
weak, but unambiguous, staining of both plexiform layers. RGCs were relatively
enriched. In Müller cells of avascular retinas, mitochondria were restricted to
scleral-end processes. For each species, enzyme activity assays yielded similar
results to the protein distributions. Labeling for uMtCK in vascular and
avascular retinas was fundamentally similar, being restricted to neuronal
populations, most notably inner segments and RGCs. Of all of the mitochondrial
proteins, uMtCK displayed the strongest labeling in avascular retinas. uMtCK was 
not detectable in Müller cells in any species.
Conclusions: The current findings advance our understanding of the metabolic
similarities and differences between vascular and avascular retinas.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.18-25536 
PMID: 30664793  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

