

570. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2019 Jan 2;60(1):331-344. doi: 10.1167/iovs.18-25536.

Distribution and Activity of Mitochondrial Proteins in Vascular and Avascular
Retinas: Implications for Retinal Metabolism.

Chidlow G(1), Wood JPM(1), Sia PI(1), Casson RJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Ophthalmic Research Laboratories, Discipline of Ophthalmology and Visual
Sciences, University of Adelaide, Adelaide, South Australia, Australia.

Purpose: Understanding the energetics of retinal neurons and glia is crucial for 
developing therapies for diseases that feature deficits in nutrient or oxygen
availability. Herein, we performed a detailed characterization of the
distribution and activity of mitochondrial proteins in the vascularized retinas
of rat and marmoset, and the avascular retinas of rabbit and guinea pig. Further,
we delineated expression of ubiquitous mitochondrial creatine kinase (uMtCK).
Methods: Expression of eight mitochondrial proteins was investigated using
Western blotting, single- and double-labeling immunohistochemistry. Activities of
cytochrome c oxidase, succinate dehydrgogenase, and isocitrate dehydrogenase were
determined by enzyme histochemistry using unfixed tissue sections.
Results: In vascularized retinas, immunoreactivities were characterized by
strong, punctate labeling in the plexiform layers, photoreceptor inner segments, 
somas of various cell types, notably retinal ganglion cells (RGCs), and the
basolateral surface of the retinal pigment epithelium. In avascular retinas,
immunoreactivities featured intense labeling of inner segments, together with
weak, but unambiguous, staining of both plexiform layers. RGCs were relatively
enriched. In Müller cells of avascular retinas, mitochondria were restricted to
scleral-end processes. For each species, enzyme activity assays yielded similar
results to the protein distributions. Labeling for uMtCK in vascular and
avascular retinas was fundamentally similar, being restricted to neuronal
populations, most notably inner segments and RGCs. Of all of the mitochondrial
proteins, uMtCK displayed the strongest labeling in avascular retinas. uMtCK was 
not detectable in Müller cells in any species.
Conclusions: The current findings advance our understanding of the metabolic
similarities and differences between vascular and avascular retinas.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.18-25536 
PMID: 30664793  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


571. Am J Primatol. 2019 Feb;81(2):e22952. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22952. Epub 2019 Jan 21.

Cross-sectional comparison of health-span phenotypes in young versus geriatric
marmosets.

Ross CN(1)(2)(3), Adams J(2), Gonzalez O(2), Dick E(2), Giavedoni L(2), Hodara
VL(2), Phillips K(4), Rigodanzo AD(4), Kasinath B(3)(5), Tardif SD(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Science and Mathematics, Texas A&M University San Antonio, San
Antonio, Texas.
(2)Southwest National Primate Research Center, Texas Biomedical Research
Institute, San Antonio, Texas.
(3)Barshop Institute for Longevity and Aging Studies, University of Texas Health 
San Antonio, San Antonio, Texas.
(4)Department of Psychology, Trinity University, San Antonio, Texas.
(5)Department of Medicine, University of Texas Health San Antonio, San Antonio,
Texas.

The development of the marmoset as a translational model for healthspan and
lifespan studies relies on the characterization of health parameters in young and
geriatric marmosets. This cross-sectional study examined health phenotypes in
marmosets for five domains of interest for human health and aging: mobility,
cognition, metabolism, homeostasis, and immune function. Geriatric marmosets were
found to have significant executive function impairment when compared to young
animals. While geriatric animals did not show gross abnormalities in mobility and
measures of locomotion, their types of movement were altered from young animals. 
Geriatric marmosets had alterations in cardiac function, with significantly
increased mean arterial pressures; metabolism, with significantly lower VO2 ; and
suppressed immune function. Further, this study sought to characterize and
describe histopathology for both young and geriatric healthy marmosets. Overall
this study provides a characterization of health parameters for young and
geriatric marmosets which will greatly enhance future aging and interventional
testing in marmosets.

© 2019 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22952 
PMCID: PMC7036287
PMID: 30664265  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

