

580. Am J Primatol. 2019 Feb;81(2):e22949. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22949. Epub 2019 Jan 8.

Age-related changes in myelin of axons of the corpus callosum and cognitive
decline in common marmosets.

Phillips KA(1)(2), Watson CM(1), Bearman A(1), Knippenberg AR(1), Adams J(2),
Ross C(2)(3)(4), Tardif SD(2)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Trinity University, San Antonio, Texas.
(2)Southwest National Primate Research Center, Texas Biomedical Research
Institute, San Antonio, Texas.
(3)Department of Science and Mathematics, Texas A&M University-San Antonio, San
Antonio, Texas.
(4)Barshop Institute for Longevity and Aging Studies, University of Texas Health 
San Antonio, San Antonio, Texas.

Executive control is a higher-level cognitive function that involves a range of
different processes that are involved in the planning, coordination, execution,
and inhibition of responses. Many of the processes associated with executive
control, such as response inhibition and mental flexibility, decline with age.
Degeneration of white matter architecture is considered to be the one of the key 
factors underlying cognitive decline associated with aging. Here we investigated 
how white matter changes of the corpus callosum were related to cognitive aging
in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). We hypothesized that reduction in
myelin thickness, myelin density, and myelin fraction of axonal fibers in the
corpus callosum would be associated with performance on a task of executive
function in a small sample of geriatric marmosets (n = 4) and young adult
marmosets (n = 2). Our results indicated declines in myelin thickness, density,
and myelin fraction with age. Considerable variability was detected on these
characteristics of myelin and cognitive performance assessed via the detoured
reach task. Age-related changes in myelin in Region II of the corpus callosum
were predictive of cognitive performance on the detoured reach task. Thus the
detoured reach task appears to also measure aspects of corticostriatal function
in addition to prefrontal cortical function.

© 2019 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22949 
PMCID: PMC6685070
PMID: 30620098  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


581. Methods Mol Biol. 2019;1938:85-95. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4939-9068-9_6.

A Specialized Method to Resolve Fine 3D Features of Astrocytes in Nonhuman
Primate (Marmoset, Callithrix jacchus) and Human Fixed Brain Samples.

Quesseveur G(1), Fouquier d'Hérouël A(2), Murai KK(3), Bouvier DS(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, Centre for Research in Neuroscience,
The Research Institute of the McGill University Health Centre, Montreal General
Hospital, Montreal, QC, Canada.
(2)Luxembourg Centre for Systems Biomedicine, University of Luxembourg, Belvaux, 
Luxembourg.
(3)Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, Centre for Research in Neuroscience,
The Research Institute of the McGill University Health Centre, Montreal General
Hospital, Montreal, QC, Canada. keith.murai@mcgill.ca.
(4)Luxembourg Centre for Systems Biomedicine, University of Luxembourg, Belvaux, 
Luxembourg. david.bouvier@uni.lu.

Astrocytes are among the most numerous cells in the brain and fulfill diverse
functions in homeostasis and regulation of neuronal activity. Astrocytes also
dramatically change their properties in response to brain injury or disease, a
process called reactive gliosis. Precisely how astrocytes contribute to healthy
brain function and play differential roles in brain pathology and regeneration
remain important areas of investigation. To better understand the properties of
astrocytes, more sophisticated approaches for probing their rich and complex
anatomical and molecular features are needed to fully determine their
contribution to brain physiology. Here we present an efficient and
straightforward immunolabeling protocol to obtain high-resolution
fluorescence-based images from fixed nonhuman primate (common marmoset Callithrix
jacchus) and human brain samples. Importantly, the protocol is useful for
obtaining images from samples that have been stored in fixative solutions (such
as formalin) for years. This approach is especially useful for three-dimensional,
multichannel confocal microscopy and can be optimized for super-resolution
techniques such as stimulated emission depletion (STED) microscopy. We also
present a strategy for using specific combinations of markers to define the
phenotypic variations and cellular/subcellular properties of astrocytes to better
predict the function of these cells on their surrounding brain microenvironment.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4939-9068-9_6 
PMID: 30617974  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

