

596. Cells Tissues Organs. 2018;205(5-6):256-278. doi: 10.1159/000493276. Epub 2018
Nov 27.

On the Enigma of the Human Neurenteric Canal.

Rulle A(1), Tsikolia N(2), de Bakker B(3), Drummer C(4), Behr R(4)(5), Viebahn
C(2).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Anatomy and Embryology, University Medical Center Göttingen,
Göttingen, Germany, Alexander.Rulle@stud.uni-goettingen.de.
(2)Institute of Anatomy and Embryology, University Medical Center Göttingen,
Göttingen, Germany.
(3)Department of Medical Biology, Section Clinical Anatomy & Embryology,
Amsterdam UMC, University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(4)Platform Degenerative Diseases, German Primate Center, Leibniz Institute for
Primate Research, Göttingen, Germany.
(5)University Medical Center Göttingen, Göttingen, Germany.

Existence and biomedical relevance of the neurenteric canal, a transient midline 
structure during early neurulation in the human embryo, have been controversially
discussed for more than a century by embryologists and clinicians alike. In this 
study, the authors address the long-standing enigma by high-resolution histology 
and three-dimensional reconstruction using new and historic histological sections
of 5 human 17- to 21-day-old embryos and of 2 marmoset monkey embryos of the
species Callithrix jacchus at corresponding stages. The neurenteric canal
presents itself as the classical vertical connection between the amniotic cavity 
and the yolk sac cavity and is lined (a) craniolaterally by a horseshoe-shaped
"hinge of involuting notochordal cells" within Hensen's node and (b) caudally by 
the receding primitive streak epiblast dorsally and by notochordal plate
epithelium ventrally, the latter of which covered the (longitudinal) notochordal 
canal on its ventral side at the preceding stage. Furthermore, asymmetric
parachordal nodal expression in Callithrix and morphological asymmetries within
the nodes of the other specimens suggest an early non-cilium-dependent left-right
symmetry breaking mode previously postulated for other mammals. We conclude that 
structure and position of the mammalian neurenteric canal support the notion of
its homology with the reptilian blastopore as a whole and with a dorsal segment
of the blastopore in amphibia. These new features of the neurenteric canal may
further clarify the aetiology of foetal malformations such as junctional
neurulation defects, neuroendodermal cysts, and the split notochord syndrome.

© 2018 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000493276 
PMID: 30481762  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


597. J Neurosci Methods. 2019 Jan 15;312:65-72. doi: 10.1016/j.jneumeth.2018.11.015.
Epub 2018 Nov 20.

Open-source hardware designs for MRI of mice, rats, and marmosets: Integrated
animal holders and radiofrequency coils.

Gilbert KM(1), Schaeffer DJ(2), Gati JS(2), Klassen LM(2), Everling S(3), Menon
RS(2).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Functional and Metabolic Mapping, The University of Western
Ontario, London, Ontario, Canada. Electronic address: kgilbert@robarts.ca.
(2)Centre for Functional and Metabolic Mapping, The University of Western
Ontario, London, Ontario, Canada.
(3)Centre for Functional and Metabolic Mapping, The University of Western
Ontario, London, Ontario, Canada; Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, The 
University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Small-animal MRI is an important investigative tool for basic and
preclinical research. High-resolution anatomical and functional studies of the
brain require artifact-free images that are acquired with a highly sensitive
radiofrequency (RF) coil.
NEW METHOD: The animal holder plays an important role in mitigating image
artifacts: motion artifacts are reduced by immobilizing the animal and
geometric-distortion artifacts are reduced by accurately positioning the animal
to improve static-field shimming. The RF coil, in turn, must provide high
sensitivity over the whole brain and not physically interfere with the animal
holder. To accomplish these tasks, the animal holder and RF coil should be
designed in tandem. In this manuscript, animal holders and RF coils for mice,
rats, and marmoset monkeys are described. Each animal holder includes components 
for anesthesia delivery and animal immobilization, as well as a compatible
receive coil.
RESULTS/COMPARISON WITH EXISTING METHOD(S): Animal holders were capable of
accurate and reproducible positioning (for the marmoset, this was in the
stereotactic plane), consequently reducing geometric distortion in echo-planar
images. Ear bars were designed in conjunction with receive-coil formers, thereby 
maximizing the sensitive region of coils, while concurrently reducing motion to
less than a pixel over EPI time series. Motion and SNR were quantified to
facilitate direct comparison to existing animal holders and RF coils. All
computer-aided-design (CAD) files of animal holders and RF coils are provided to 
promote dissemination.
CONCLUSIONS: The confluence of design between the animal holder and RF coil
provides a pragmatic solution for routine imaging of small animals.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jneumeth.2018.11.015 
PMID: 30468825  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

