

600. Front Neuroanat. 2018 Oct 30;12:89. doi: 10.3389/fnana.2018.00089. eCollection
2018.

Axonal Projections From the Middle Temporal Area in the Common Marmoset.

Abe H(1), Tani T(1), Mashiko H(1), Kitamura N(1), Hayami T(2), Watanabe S(2),
Sakai K(2), Suzuki W(2), Mizukami H(3), Watakabe A(4), Yamamori T(4), Ichinohe
N(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Ichinohe Group, Laboratory for Molecular Analysis of Higher Brain Function,
Center for Brain Science, RIKEN, Saitama, Japan.
(2)Department of Ultrastructural Research, National Institute of Neuroscience,
National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, Tokyo, Japan.
(3)Division of Genetic Therapeutics, Center for Molecular Medicine, Jichi Medical
University, Tochigi, Japan.
(4)Laboratory for Molecular Analysis of Higher Brain Function, Center for Brain
Science, RIKEN, Saitama, Japan.

Neural activity in the middle temporal (MT) area is modulated by the direction
and speed of motion of visual stimuli. The area is buried in a sulcus in the
macaque, but exposed to the cortical surface in the marmoset, making the marmoset
an ideal animal model for studying MT function. To better understand the details 
of the roles of this area in cognition, underlying anatomical connections need to
be clarified. Because most anatomical tracing studies in marmosets have used
retrograde tracers, the axonal projections remain uncharacterized. In order to
examine axonal projections from MT, we utilized adeno-associated viral (AAV)
tracers, which work as anterograde tracers by expressing either green or red
fluorescent protein in infected neurons. AAV tracers were injected into three
sites in MT based on retinotopy maps obtained via in vivo optical intrinsic
signal imaging. Brains were sectioned and divided into three series, one for
fluorescent image scanning and two for myelin and Nissl substance staining to
identify specific brain areas. Overall projection patterns were similar across
the injections. MT projected to occipital visual areas V1, V2, V3 (VLP) and V4
(VLA) and surrounding areas in the temporal cortex including MTC (V4T), MST, FST,
FSTv (PGa/IPa) and TE3. There were also projections to the dorsal visual pathway,
V3A (DA), V6 (DM) and V6A, the intraparietal areas AIP, LIP, MIP, frontal A4ab
and the prefrontal cortex, A8aV and A8C. There was a visuotopic relationship with
occipital visual areas. In a marmoset in which two tracer injections were made,
the projection targets did not overlap in A8aV and AIP, suggesting topographic
projections from different parts of MT. Most of these areas are known to send
projections back to MT, suggesting that they are reciprocally connected with it.

DOI: 10.3389/fnana.2018.00089 
PMCID: PMC6218423
PMID: 30425625 


601. Neuroimage. 2019 Feb 1;186:301-307. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2018.11.005. Epub
2018 Nov 10.

Intrinsic functional clustering of anterior cingulate cortex in the common
marmoset.

Schaeffer DJ(1), Gilbert KM(1), Ghahremani M(1), Gati JS(1), Menon RS(2),
Everling S(3).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Functional and Metabolic Mapping, Robarts Research Institute,
University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, Canada.
(2)Centre for Functional and Metabolic Mapping, Robarts Research Institute,
University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, Canada; Department of Physiology 
and Pharmacology, University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, Canada.
(3)Centre for Functional and Metabolic Mapping, Robarts Research Institute,
University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, Canada; Department of Physiology 
and Pharmacology, University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, Canada.
Electronic address: severlin@uwo.ca.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) has garnered recent attention as a
potentially powerful preclinical model and complement to other canonical
mammalian models of human brain diseases (e.g., rodents and Old World non-human
primates). With a granular frontal cortex and the advent of transgenic
modifications, marmosets are well positioned to serve as neuropsychiatric models 
of prefrontal cortex dysfunction. A critical step in the development of marmosets
for such models is to characterize functional network topologies of frontal
cortex in healthy, normally functioning marmosets. Here, we sought to
characterize the intrinsic functional connectivity of anterior cingulate cortex
(ACC) in marmosets using resting state functional magnetic resonance imaging
(RS-fMRI). Seven lightly anesthetized marmosets were imaged at ultra-high field
(9.4 T) and hierarchical clustering was employed to extract functional clusters
of ACC from the RS-fMRI data. The data demonstrated three functionally discrete
clusters within ACC. The functional connectivity between these clusters with the 
rest of the brain was also found to be distinct, supporting the hypothesis that
ACC subregions serve different circuits and their concomitant functions. In a
separate seed-based analysis, we also sought to delineate finer-grained patterns 
of ACC connectivity between marmoset primary motor area 4ab and putative eye
movement areas (8aD and 8aV). This analysis demonstrated distinct patterns of ACC
functional connectivity between motor and eye movement regions that overlapped
well with what has been shown in humans and macaques. Overall, these results
demonstrate that marmosets have a network topology of ACC that resembles that of 
Old World primates, giving further credence to the use of marmosets for
preclinical studies of intractable human brain diseases.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2018.11.005 
PMID: 30419289  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

