

601. Neuroimage. 2019 Feb 1;186:301-307. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2018.11.005. Epub
2018 Nov 10.

Intrinsic functional clustering of anterior cingulate cortex in the common
marmoset.

Schaeffer DJ(1), Gilbert KM(1), Ghahremani M(1), Gati JS(1), Menon RS(2),
Everling S(3).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Functional and Metabolic Mapping, Robarts Research Institute,
University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, Canada.
(2)Centre for Functional and Metabolic Mapping, Robarts Research Institute,
University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, Canada; Department of Physiology 
and Pharmacology, University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, Canada.
(3)Centre for Functional and Metabolic Mapping, Robarts Research Institute,
University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, Canada; Department of Physiology 
and Pharmacology, University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, Canada.
Electronic address: severlin@uwo.ca.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) has garnered recent attention as a
potentially powerful preclinical model and complement to other canonical
mammalian models of human brain diseases (e.g., rodents and Old World non-human
primates). With a granular frontal cortex and the advent of transgenic
modifications, marmosets are well positioned to serve as neuropsychiatric models 
of prefrontal cortex dysfunction. A critical step in the development of marmosets
for such models is to characterize functional network topologies of frontal
cortex in healthy, normally functioning marmosets. Here, we sought to
characterize the intrinsic functional connectivity of anterior cingulate cortex
(ACC) in marmosets using resting state functional magnetic resonance imaging
(RS-fMRI). Seven lightly anesthetized marmosets were imaged at ultra-high field
(9.4 T) and hierarchical clustering was employed to extract functional clusters
of ACC from the RS-fMRI data. The data demonstrated three functionally discrete
clusters within ACC. The functional connectivity between these clusters with the 
rest of the brain was also found to be distinct, supporting the hypothesis that
ACC subregions serve different circuits and their concomitant functions. In a
separate seed-based analysis, we also sought to delineate finer-grained patterns 
of ACC connectivity between marmoset primary motor area 4ab and putative eye
movement areas (8aD and 8aV). This analysis demonstrated distinct patterns of ACC
functional connectivity between motor and eye movement regions that overlapped
well with what has been shown in humans and macaques. Overall, these results
demonstrate that marmosets have a network topology of ACC that resembles that of 
Old World primates, giving further credence to the use of marmosets for
preclinical studies of intractable human brain diseases.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2018.11.005 
PMID: 30419289  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


602. Development. 2018 Nov 9;145(21). pii: dev167833. doi: 10.1242/dev.167833.

Single cell transcriptome analysis of human, marmoset and mouse embryos reveals
common and divergent features of preimplantation development.

Boroviak T(1)(2), Stirparo GG(1), Dietmann S(1), Hernando-Herraez I(3), Mohammed 
H(3), Reik W(3), Smith A(1)(4), Sasaki E(5), Nichols J(1)(2), Bertone P(6).

Author information: 
(1)Wellcome Trust - Medical Research Council Stem Cell Institute, University of
Cambridge, Tennis Court Road, Cambridge CB2 1QR, UK.
(2)Department of Physiology, Development and Neuroscience, University of
Cambridge, Tennis Court Road, Cambridge CB2 3EG, UK.
(3)Epigenetics Programme, Babraham Institute, Cambridge CB22 3AT, UK.
(4)Department of Biochemistry, University of Cambridge, Tennis Court Road,
Cambridge CB2 1GA, UK.
(5)Central Institute for Experimental Animals, Department of Applied
Developmental Biology, 3-25-12 Tonomachi, Kawasaki-ku, Kawasaki 210-0821, Japan.
(6)Wellcome Trust - Medical Research Council Stem Cell Institute, University of
Cambridge, Tennis Court Road, Cambridge CB2 1QR, UK bertone@stemcells.cam.ac.uk.

The mouse embryo is the canonical model for mammalian preimplantation
development. Recent advances in single cell profiling allow detailed analysis of 
embryogenesis in other eutherian species, including human, to distinguish
conserved from divergent regulatory programs and signalling pathways in the
rodent paradigm. Here, we identify and compare transcriptional features of human,
marmoset and mouse embryos by single cell RNA-seq. Zygotic genome activation
correlates with the presence of polycomb repressive complexes in all three
species, while ribosome biogenesis emerges as a predominant attribute in primate 
embryos, supporting prolonged translation of maternally deposited RNAs. We find
that transposable element expression signatures are species, stage and lineage
specific. The pluripotency network in the primate epiblast lacks certain
regulators that are operative in mouse, but encompasses WNT components and genes 
associated with trophoblast specification. Sequential activation of GATA6, SOX17 
and GATA4 markers of primitive endoderm identity is conserved in primates.
Unexpectedly, OTX2 is also associated with primitive endoderm specification in
human and non-human primate blastocysts. Our cross-species analysis demarcates
both conserved and primate-specific features of preimplantation development, and 
underscores the molecular adaptability of early mammalian embryogenesis.

© 2018. Published by The Company of Biologists Ltd.

DOI: 10.1242/dev.167833 
PMCID: PMC6240320
PMID: 30413530  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interestsThe authors declare no
competing or financial interests.

