

606. Reproduction. 2019 Jan;157(1):101-109. doi: 10.1530/REP-18-0401.

Primordial germ cells do not migrate along nerve fibres in marmoset monkey and
mouse embryos.

Wolff E(1), Suplicki MM(1), Behr R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Research Platform Degenerative Diseases, German Primate Center, Leibniz
Institute for Primate Research, Göttingen, Germany.

Primordial germ cells (PGCs) are the embryonic precursors of spermatozoa and
eggs. In mammals, PGCs arise early in embryonic development and migrate from
their tissue of specification over a significant distance to reach their
destinations, the genital ridges. However, the exact mechanism of translocation
is still debated. A study on human embryos demonstrated a very close spatial
association between migrating PGCs and developing peripheral nerves. Thus, it was
proposed that peripheral nerves act as guiding structures for migrating PGCs. The
goal of the present study is to test whether the association between nerves and
PGCs may be a human-specific finding or whether this represents a general
strategy to guide PGCs in mammals. Therefore, we investigated embryos of
different developmental stages from the mouse and a non-human primate, the
marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus), covering the phase from PGC emergence to
their arrival in the gonadal ridge. Embryo sections were immunohistochemically
co-stained for tubulin beta-3 chain (TUBB3) to visualise neurons and
Octamer-binding protein 4 (OCT4 (POU5F1)) as marker for PGCs. The distance
between PGCs and the nearest detectable neuron was measured. We discovered that
in all embryos analysed of both species, the majority of PGCs (>94%) was found at
a minimum distance of 50 µm to the closest neuron and, more importantly, that the
PGCs had reached the gonads before any TUBB3 signal could be detected in the
vicinity of the gonads. In conclusion, our data indicate that PGC migration along
peripheral nerves is not a general mechanism in mammals.

DOI: 10.1530/REP-18-0401 
PMID: 30390611  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


607. Brain Behav. 2018 Dec;8(12):e01148. doi: 10.1002/brb3.1148. Epub 2018 Oct 30.

Sex-biased gene expression in the frontal cortex of common marmosets (Callithrix 
jacchus) and potential behavioral correlates.

Nogueira VB(1), Imparato DO(2), de Souza SJ(3), de Sousa MBC(4).

Author information: 
(1)Health Sciences Graduate Program, Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte,
Natal, Brazil.
(2)Bioinformatics Multidisciplinary Environment, Federal University of Rio Grande
do Norte, Natal, Brazil.
(3)Brain Institute, Bioinformatics Multidisciplinary Environment, Federal
University of Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, Brazil.
(4)Brain Institute and Health Sciences Graduate Program, Federal University of
Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, Brazil.

INTRODUCTION: The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a small New World monkey,
has been widely used as a biological model in neuroscience to elucidate neural
circuits involved in cognition and to understand brain dysfunction in
neuropsychiatric disorders. In this regard, the availability of gene expression
data derived from next-generation sequencing (NGS) technologies represents an
opportunity for a molecular contextualization. Sexual dimorphism account for
differences in diseases prevalence and prognosis. Here, we explore sex
differences on frontal cortex of gene expression in common marmoset's adults.
METHODS: Gene expression profiles in six different tissues (cerebellum, frontal
cortex, liver, heart, and kidney) were analyzed in male and female marmosets. To 
emphasize the translational value of this species for behavioral studies, we
focused on sex-biased gene expression from the frontal cortex of male and female 
in common marmosets and compared to humans (Homo sapiens).
RESULTS: In this study, we found that frontal cortex genes whose expression is
male-biased are conserved between marmosets and humans and enriched with
"house-keeping" functions. On the other hand, female-biased genes are more
related to neural plasticity functions involved in remodeling of synaptic
circuits, stress cascades, and visual behavior. Additionally, we developed and
made available an application-the CajaDB-to provide a friendly interface for
genomic, expression, and alternative splicing data of marmosets together with a
series of functionalities that allow the exploration of these data. CajaDB is
available at cajadb.neuro.ufrn.br.
CONCLUSION: The data point to differences in gene expression of male and female
common marmosets in all tissues analyzed. In frontal cortex, female-biased
expression in synaptic plasticity, stress, and visual processing might be linked 
to biological and behavioral mechanisms of this sex. Due to the limited sample
size, the data here analyzed are for exploratory purposes.

© 2018 Federal Government of Brazil. Brain and Behavior published by Wiley
Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/brb3.1148 
PMCID: PMC6305938
PMID: 30378298  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

