

610. Primates. 2018 Nov;59(6):553-570. doi: 10.1007/s10329-018-0694-3. Epub 2018 Oct
24.

The Japan Monkey Centre Primates Brain Imaging Repository for comparative
neuroscience: an archive of digital records including records for endangered
species.

Sakai T(1)(2)(3)(4), Hata J(5)(6)(7), Ohta H(6), Shintaku Y(8)(9), Kimura N(9),
Ogawa Y(6), Sogabe K(10), Mori S(11)(12), Okano HJ(6), Hamada Y(13), Shibata
S(5), Okano H(5)(7), Oishi K(11).

Author information: 
(1)The Russell H. Morgan Department of Radiology and Radiological Science, The
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, USA.
sakai.tomoko.5w@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.
sakai.tomoko.5w@gmail.com.
(3)Division of Regenerative Medicine, The Jikei University School of Medicine,
Tokyo, Japan. sakai.tomoko.5w@gmail.com.
(4)Japan Society for the Promotion of Science, Tokyo, Japan.
sakai.tomoko.5w@gmail.com.
(5)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.
(6)Division of Regenerative Medicine, The Jikei University School of Medicine,
Tokyo, Japan.
(7)Laboratory for Marmoset Neural Architecture, RIKEN Brain Science Institute,
Wako, Saitama, Japan.
(8)Wildlife Research Center, Kyoto University, Kyoto, Japan.
(9)Japan Monkey Centre, Inuyama, Japan.
(10)Faculty of Health Sciences, Graduate School of Human Health Sciences, Tokyo
Metropolitan University, Tokyo, Japan.
(11)The Russell H. Morgan Department of Radiology and Radiological Science, The
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, USA.
(12)F.M. Kirby Research Center for Functional Brain Imaging, Kenney Krieger
Institute, Baltimore, USA.
(13)Primate Research Institute, Kyoto University, Inuyama, Japan.

Advances in magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and computational analysis
technology have enabled comparisons among various primate brains in a
three-dimensional electronic format. Results from comparative studies provide
information about common features across primates and species-specific features
of neuroanatomy. Investigation of various species of non-human primates is
important for understanding such features, but the majority of comparative MRI
studies have been based on experimental primates, such as common marmoset,
macaques, and chimpanzee. A major obstacle has been the lack of a database that
includes non-experimental primates' brain MRIs. To facilitate scientific
discoveries in the field of comparative neuroanatomy and brain evolution, we
launched a collaborative project to develop an open-resource repository of
non-human primate brain images obtained using ex vivo MRI. As an initial open
resource, here we release a collection of structural MRI and diffusion tensor
images obtained from 12 species: pygmy marmoset, owl monkey, white-fronted
capuchin, crab-eating macaque, Japanese macaque, bonnet macaque, toque macaque,
Sykes' monkey, red-tailed monkey, Schmidt's guenon, de Brazza's guenon, and lar
gibbon. Sixteen postmortem brain samples from the 12 species, stored in the Japan
Monkey Centre (JMC), were scanned using a 9.4-T MRI scanner and made available
through the JMC collaborative research program (
http://www.j-monkey.jp/BIR/index_e.html ). The expected significant contributions
of the JMC Primates Brain Imaging Repository include (1) resources for
comparative neuroscience research, (2) preservation of various primate brains,
including those of endangered species, in a permanent digital form, (3) resources
with higher resolution for identifying neuroanatomical features, compared to
previous MRI atlases, (4) resources for optimizing methods of scanning large
fixed brains, and (5) references for veterinary neuroradiology. User-initiated
research projects beyond these contributions are also anticipated.

DOI: 10.1007/s10329-018-0694-3 
PMID: 30357587  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


611. Cereb Cortex. 2019 Aug 14;29(9):3891-3901. doi: 10.1093/cercor/bhy268.

High-Expanding Regions in Primate Cortical Brain Evolution Support Supramodal
Cognitive Flexibility.

Sneve MH(1), Grydeland H(1), Rosa MGP(2)(3)(4), Paus T(5)(6)(7)(8), Chaplin
T(2)(3)(4), Walhovd K(1)(9), Fjell AM(1)(9).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Lifespan Changes in Brain and Cognition, Department of Psychology, 
University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway.
(2)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Clayton, VIC, Australia.
(3)Biomedicine Discovery Institute, Monash University, Clayton, VIC, Australia.
(4)Australian Research Council, Centre for Excellence for Integrative Brain
Function, Monash University, Clayton, VIC, Australia.
(5)Rotman Research Institute, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada.
(6)Department of Psychiatry, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada.
(7)Center for Developing Brain, Child Mind Institute, New York, NY, USA.
(8)Department of Psychology, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada.
(9)Department of Radiology and Nuclear Medicine, Oslo University Hospital, Oslo, 
Norway.

Primate cortical evolution has been characterized by massive and disproportionate
expansion of a set of specific regions in the neocortex. The associated increase 
in neocortical neurons comes with a high metabolic cost, thus the functions
served by these regions must have conferred significant evolutionary advantage.
In the present series of analyses, we show that evolutionary high-expanding
cortex - as estimated from patterns of surface growth from several primate
species - shares functional connections with different brain networks in a
context-dependent manner. Specifically, we demonstrate that high-expanding cortex
is characterized by high internetwork functional connectivity; is recruited
flexibly over many different cognitive tasks; and changes its functional coupling
pattern between rest and a multimodal task-state. The capacity of high-expanding 
cortex to connect flexibly with various specialized brain networks depending on
particular cognitive requirements suggests that its selective growth and
sustainment in evolution may have been linked to an involvement in supramodal
cognition. In accordance with an evolutionary-developmental view, we find that
this observed ability of high-expanding regions - to flexibly modulate functional
connections as a function of cognitive state - emerges gradually through
childhood, with a prolonged developmental trajectory plateauing in young
adulthood.

© The Author(s) 2018. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. 
For Permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhy268 
PMID: 30357354  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

