

611. Cereb Cortex. 2019 Aug 14;29(9):3891-3901. doi: 10.1093/cercor/bhy268.

High-Expanding Regions in Primate Cortical Brain Evolution Support Supramodal
Cognitive Flexibility.

Sneve MH(1), Grydeland H(1), Rosa MGP(2)(3)(4), Paus T(5)(6)(7)(8), Chaplin
T(2)(3)(4), Walhovd K(1)(9), Fjell AM(1)(9).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Lifespan Changes in Brain and Cognition, Department of Psychology, 
University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway.
(2)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Clayton, VIC, Australia.
(3)Biomedicine Discovery Institute, Monash University, Clayton, VIC, Australia.
(4)Australian Research Council, Centre for Excellence for Integrative Brain
Function, Monash University, Clayton, VIC, Australia.
(5)Rotman Research Institute, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada.
(6)Department of Psychiatry, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada.
(7)Center for Developing Brain, Child Mind Institute, New York, NY, USA.
(8)Department of Psychology, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada.
(9)Department of Radiology and Nuclear Medicine, Oslo University Hospital, Oslo, 
Norway.

Primate cortical evolution has been characterized by massive and disproportionate
expansion of a set of specific regions in the neocortex. The associated increase 
in neocortical neurons comes with a high metabolic cost, thus the functions
served by these regions must have conferred significant evolutionary advantage.
In the present series of analyses, we show that evolutionary high-expanding
cortex - as estimated from patterns of surface growth from several primate
species - shares functional connections with different brain networks in a
context-dependent manner. Specifically, we demonstrate that high-expanding cortex
is characterized by high internetwork functional connectivity; is recruited
flexibly over many different cognitive tasks; and changes its functional coupling
pattern between rest and a multimodal task-state. The capacity of high-expanding 
cortex to connect flexibly with various specialized brain networks depending on
particular cognitive requirements suggests that its selective growth and
sustainment in evolution may have been linked to an involvement in supramodal
cognition. In accordance with an evolutionary-developmental view, we find that
this observed ability of high-expanding regions - to flexibly modulate functional
connections as a function of cognitive state - emerges gradually through
childhood, with a prolonged developmental trajectory plateauing in young
adulthood.

© The Author(s) 2018. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. 
For Permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhy268 
PMID: 30357354  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


612. Cereb Cortex. 2019 Aug 14;29(9):3836-3863. doi: 10.1093/cercor/bhy263.

Neuronal Distribution Across the Cerebral Cortex of the Marmoset Monkey
(Callithrix jacchus).

Atapour N(1)(2)(3), Majka P(1)(2)(3)(4), Wolkowicz IH(1)(2), Malamanova D(1)(2), 
Worthy KH(1)(2), Rosa MGP(1)(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Neuroscience Program, Monash Biomedicine Discovery Institute, 19 Innovation
Walk, Clayton, Melbourne, VIC, Australia.
(2)Department of Physiology, Monash University, 26 Innovation Walk, Clayton,
Melbourne, VIC, Australia.
(3)Australian Research Council, Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain
Function, Monash University Node, 770 Blackburn Road, Clayton, Melbourne, VIC,
Australia.
(4)Laboratory of Neuroinformatics, Nencki Institute of Experimental Biology of
Polish Academy of Sciences, 3 Pasteur Street, Warsaw, Poland.

Using stereological analysis of NeuN-stained sections, we investigated neuronal
density and number of neurons per column throughout the marmoset cortex.
Estimates of mean neuronal density encompassed a greater than 3-fold range, from 
>150 000 neurons/mm3 in the primary visual cortex to ~50 000 neurons/mm3 in the
piriform complex. There was a trend for density to decrease from posterior to
anterior cortex, but also local gradients, which resulted in a complex pattern;
for example, in frontal, auditory, and somatosensory cortex neuronal density
tended to increase towards anterior areas. Anterior cingulate, motor, premotor,
insular, and ventral temporal areas were characterized by relatively low neuronal
densities. Analysis across the depth of the cortex revealed greater laminar
variation of neuronal density in occipital, parietal, and inferior temporal
areas, in comparison with other regions. Moreover, differences between areas were
more pronounced in the supragranular layers than in infragranular layers.
Calculations of the number of neurons per unit column revealed a pattern that was
distinct from that of neuronal density, including local peaks in the posterior
parietal, superior temporal, precuneate, frontopolar, and temporopolar regions.
These results suggest that neuronal distribution in adult cortex result from a
complex interaction of developmental/ evolutionary determinants and functional
requirements.

© The Author(s) 2018. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. 
For Permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhy263 
PMID: 30357325  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

