

633. Am J Primatol. 2018 Nov;80(11):e22926. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22926. Epub 2018 Oct 10.

Defining predictive factors for reproductive output in captive common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus).

Bakker J(1), Louwerse AL(1), Remarque EJ(2), Langermans JAM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Animal Science Department, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Rijswijk, The
Netherlands.
(2)Department of Virology, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Rijswijk, The
Netherlands.

Common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) demonstrate variations in reproductive
output, not only in terms of total reproductive output during a lifetime but also
in litter size per parturition. The present study explores factors, such as
parents' litter size, parturition number, maternal body weight at conception and 
maternal age, which may account for this variation. A retrospective analysis of
clinical records of a captive breeding colony was conducted over a 9-year period 
yielding reproductive summaries of 26 dams and 22 sires producing a total of 115 
litters. Dams born from litters of  ≤2 (N = 20) more often produced litters of
≤2, whereas dams born from litters of >2 (N = 6) more often produced litters of
>2 (p < 0.05). The dams' maternal body weight at the time of conception had also 
a significant effect on subsequent litter size. In addition, the chance of
triplets was higher after the second parturition. Maternal age, interbirth
interval, and season of birth had no effect on litter size. Factors relating to
the sire had a negligible effect on the size of the litter. Multivariate
statistical modeling revealed that the dams' original litter size, maternal
bodyweight at conception and parturition number are determining factors for the
number of babies per litter. This study identified factors determining marmoset
litter size, some of which (maternal litter size) are novel to this study and
were not reported previously. Further exploration of the potential role of
maternal litter size as a determinant of the litter sizes produced by marmoset
breeders is warranted.

© 2018 The Authors. American Journal of Primatology Published by Wiley
Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22926 
PMCID: PMC6220776
PMID: 30302782  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


634. PLoS Biol. 2018 Oct 9;16(10):e2006021. doi: 10.1371/journal.pbio.2006021.
eCollection 2018 Oct.

Gene expression in response to optical defocus of opposite signs reveals
bidirectional mechanism of visually guided eye growth.

Tkatchenko TV(1), Troilo D(2), Benavente-Perez A(2), Tkatchenko AV(1)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Columbia University, New York, New York, United
States of America.
(2)College of Optometry, State University of New York, New York, New York, United
States of America.
(3)Department of Pathology and Cell Biology, Columbia University, New York, New
York, United States of America.

Myopia (nearsightedness) is the most common eye disorder, which is rapidly
becoming one of the leading causes of vision loss in several parts of the world
because of a recent sharp increase in prevalence. Nearwork, which produces
hyperopic optical defocus on the retina, has been implicated as one of the
environmental risk factors causing myopia in humans. Experimental studies have
shown that hyperopic defocus imposed by negative power lenses placed in front of 
the eye accelerates eye growth and causes myopia, whereas myopic defocus imposed 
by positive lenses slows eye growth and produces a compensatory hyperopic shift
in refractive state. The balance between these two optical signals is thought to 
regulate refractive eye development; however, the ability of the retina to
recognize the sign of optical defocus and the composition of molecular signaling 
pathways guiding emmetropization are the subjects of intense investigation and
debate. We found that the retina can readily distinguish between imposed myopic
and hyperopic defocus, and identified key signaling pathways underlying retinal
response to the defocus of different signs. Comparison of retinal transcriptomes 
in common marmosets exposed to either myopic or hyperopic defocus for 10 days or 
5 weeks revealed that the primate retina responds to defocus of different signs
by activation or suppression of largely distinct pathways. We also found that 29 
genes differentially expressed in the marmoset retina in response to imposed
defocus are localized within human myopia quantitative trait loci (QTLs),
suggesting functional overlap between genes differentially expressed in the
marmoset retina upon exposure to optical defocus and genes causing myopia in
humans. These findings identify retinal pathways involved in the development of
myopia, as well as potential new strategies for its treatment.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pbio.2006021 
PMCID: PMC6177118
PMID: 30300342  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.

