

634. PLoS Biol. 2018 Oct 9;16(10):e2006021. doi: 10.1371/journal.pbio.2006021.
eCollection 2018 Oct.

Gene expression in response to optical defocus of opposite signs reveals
bidirectional mechanism of visually guided eye growth.

Tkatchenko TV(1), Troilo D(2), Benavente-Perez A(2), Tkatchenko AV(1)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Columbia University, New York, New York, United
States of America.
(2)College of Optometry, State University of New York, New York, New York, United
States of America.
(3)Department of Pathology and Cell Biology, Columbia University, New York, New
York, United States of America.

Myopia (nearsightedness) is the most common eye disorder, which is rapidly
becoming one of the leading causes of vision loss in several parts of the world
because of a recent sharp increase in prevalence. Nearwork, which produces
hyperopic optical defocus on the retina, has been implicated as one of the
environmental risk factors causing myopia in humans. Experimental studies have
shown that hyperopic defocus imposed by negative power lenses placed in front of 
the eye accelerates eye growth and causes myopia, whereas myopic defocus imposed 
by positive lenses slows eye growth and produces a compensatory hyperopic shift
in refractive state. The balance between these two optical signals is thought to 
regulate refractive eye development; however, the ability of the retina to
recognize the sign of optical defocus and the composition of molecular signaling 
pathways guiding emmetropization are the subjects of intense investigation and
debate. We found that the retina can readily distinguish between imposed myopic
and hyperopic defocus, and identified key signaling pathways underlying retinal
response to the defocus of different signs. Comparison of retinal transcriptomes 
in common marmosets exposed to either myopic or hyperopic defocus for 10 days or 
5 weeks revealed that the primate retina responds to defocus of different signs
by activation or suppression of largely distinct pathways. We also found that 29 
genes differentially expressed in the marmoset retina in response to imposed
defocus are localized within human myopia quantitative trait loci (QTLs),
suggesting functional overlap between genes differentially expressed in the
marmoset retina upon exposure to optical defocus and genes causing myopia in
humans. These findings identify retinal pathways involved in the development of
myopia, as well as potential new strategies for its treatment.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pbio.2006021 
PMCID: PMC6177118
PMID: 30300342  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.


635. Behav Neurosci. 2018 Dec;132(6):526-535. doi: 10.1037/bne0000273. Epub 2018 Oct
8.

Blockade of dopamine D₁ receptors, but not D₂ receptors, decreases motivation in 
a novel effort-discounting paradigm in common marmosets.

Enomoto T(1), Konoike N(2), Takemoto A(2), Nakamura K(2), Ikeda K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Sumitomo Dainippon Pharma Co. Ltd.
(2)Cognitive Neuroscience Section.

Effort-based decision-making paradigms have recently been used to measure
motivation in healthy subjects and patients with neuropsychiatric disorders. In
the present study, we developed a novel effort-discounting paradigm using a
touch-panel system in common marmosets. Marmosets were trained to choose between 
a low-reward (a piece of cake) requiring low-effort (one touch response) versus
high-reward (three pieces of cake) requiring one of three different effort levels
(one, two, or four touch responses). Because the number of trials per session was
kept constant, the selection of the high-reward choice was always the optimal
strategy to receive the maximum number of rewards. Marmosets' high-reward rates
were reduced as the physical effort requirement was increased, when they were
tested using effort discounting in either ascending or descending order of effort
intensity. It indicates that marmosets' decisions could be attributable to
cost-benefit evaluation, but not to their fatigue or satisfaction with the reward
during the progression of the paradigm. The high dose of dopamine D₁ receptor
antagonist SCH-39166 (0.03 mg/kg) reduced the high-reward choice rate, only when 
more effort was required to obtain the high-reward than the low-reward. On the
other hand, the D₂ receptor antagonist raclopride (0.01 and 0.03 mg/kg)
unexpectedly did not affect the high-reward choice rate, but the high dose did
increase omission rate. Our finding suggests that dopamine D₁ receptor signaling 
may play a more important role in effort-based decision making than D₂ receptor
signaling in marmosets. Our novel behavioral paradigm would be useful in
translational research focused on motivational deficits. (PsycINFO Database
Record (c) 2018 APA, all rights reserved).

DOI: 10.1037/bne0000273 
PMID: 30299146  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

