

641. Folia Primatol (Basel). 2018;89(6):357-364. doi: 10.1159/000490793. Epub 2018 Oct
2.

Stay Gathered Rather than Scattered: Strategies of Common Marmosets during
Agonistic Interactions with Birds in the Atlantic Rain Forest.

Borges SCA(1), Oliveira FGS(1), Guerra R(2), Gunhold-de Oliveira T(3),
Pesendorfer MB(3)(4), Bezerra BM(2), Souto AS(2), Schiel N(5).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Biologia, Universidade Federal Rural de Pernambuco, Recife,
Brazil.
(2)Departamento de Zoologia, Universidade Federal de Pernambuco, Recife, Brazil.
(3)Department of Cognitive Biology, University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria.
(4)Cornell Lab of Ornithology, Ithaca, New York, USA.
(5)Departamento de Biologia, Universidade Federal Rural de Pernambuco, Recife,
Brazilnschiel@yahoo.com.

To reduce the vulnerability of their small body size, common marmosets live in
large and cohesive social groups. Thus, we hypothesized that in order to
compensate for small body size and predation risk, individuals of common
marmosets will stay gathered rather than scattered when foraging for eggs and/or 
nestling birds. Furthermore, in order to avoid costly injuries and eventual
predation risks, for both sides, the majority of interactions among common
marmosets and small birds will not involve direct physical contact. The study was
developed in a small fragment of Atlantic Forest in the northeast of Brazil. We
recorded a total of 115 interactions between common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus) with 7 different bird species. As expected, agonistic interactions were 
significantly more frequent when the marmosets were gathered. Also, most
agonistic interactions by the birds toward common marmosets involved overflights 
without physical contact. Apparently, the set of avoidance behavior leads to a
reduced predation risk for both sides. It appears that dispersed marmosets do not
represent an imminent threat that justifies an agonistic reaction by the birds as
the latter appear to avoid exposing themselves to unnecessary danger during
agonistic interactions, especially when the marmosets are gathered.

© 2018 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000490793 
PMID: 30278454  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


642. PLoS One. 2018 Sep 27;13(9):e0204580. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0204580.
eCollection 2018.

Immortalization of common marmoset monkey fibroblasts by piggyBac transposition
of hTERT.

Petkov S(1)(2), Kahland T(1), Shomroni O(3), Lingner T(3), Salinas G(3), Fuchs
S(4), Debowski K(1), Behr R(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Platform Degenerative Diseases, German Primate Center- Leibniz Institute for
Primate Research, Göttingen, Germany.
(2)DZHK (German Center for Cardiovascular Research), Partner Site Göttingen,
Göttingen, Germany.
(3)Microarray and Deep-Sequencing Core Facility, University Medical Center
Göttingen (UMG), Göttingen, Germany.
(4)Department of Human Genetics, University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf,
Hamburg, Germany.

Following a certain type-specific number of mitotic divisions, terminally
differentiated cells undergo proliferative senescence, thwarting efforts to
expand different cell populations in vitro for the needs of scientific research
or medical therapies. The primary cause of this phenomenon is the progressive
shortening of the telomeres and the subsequent activation of cell cycle control
pathways leading to a block of cell proliferation. Restoration of telomere length
by transgenic expression of telomerase reverse transcriptase (TERT) usually
results in bypassing of the replicative senescence and ultimately in cell
immortalization. To date, there have not been any reports regarding
immortalization of cells from common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), an important 
non-human primate model for various human diseases, with the use of exogenous
human TERT (hTERT). In this study, marmoset fibroblasts were successfully
immortalized with transposon-integrated transgenic hTERT and expanded in vitro
for over 500 population doublings. Calculation of population doubling levels
(PDL) showed that the derived hTERT-transgenic lines had significantly higher
proliferation potential than the wild-type fibroblasts, which reached only a
maximum of 46 doublings. However, the immortalized cells exhibited differences in
the morphology compared with the control fibroblasts and transcriptome analysis
also revealed changes in the gene expression patterns. Finally, the karyotypes of
all hTERT-transgenic cell lines showed various aberrations such as presence of
extra Chromosome 17, isochromosome 21q, or tetraploidy. By single-cell expansion 
of the least affected monoclonal immortalized line, one sub-clonal line with
normal karyotype was established, suggesting the possibility to derive immortal
marmoset cells with normal karyotypes. The results of this study are an important
step towards the development and optimization of methods for the production of
immortalized cells from common marmoset monkeys.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0204580 
PMCID: PMC6160115
PMID: 30261016  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.

