

651. PLoS Pathog. 2018 Aug 30;14(8):e1007223. doi: 10.1371/journal.ppat.1007223.
eCollection 2018 Aug.

Storage lipid studies in tuberculosis reveal that foam cell biogenesis is
disease-specific.

Guerrini V(1), Prideaux B(1), Blanc L(1), Bruiners N(1), Arrigucci R(1), Singh
S(2), Ho-Liang HP(1), Salamon H(3), Chen PY(1), Lakehal K(1), Subbian S(1),
O'Brien P(1), Via LE(4), Barry CE 3rd(4), Dartois V(1), Gennaro ML(1).

Author information: 
(1)Public Health Research Institute, New Jersey Medical School, Rutgers, The
State University of New Jersey, Newark, NJ, United States of America.
(2)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, New Jersey Medical School,
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey, Newark, NJ, United States of
America.
(3)Knowledge Synthesis, Berkeley, CA, United States of America.
(4)Tuberculosis Research Section, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious
Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, United States of America.

Foam cells are lipid-laden macrophages that contribute to the inflammation and
tissue damage associated with many chronic inflammatory disorders. Although foam 
cell biogenesis has been extensively studied in atherosclerosis, how these cells 
form during a chronic infectious disease such as tuberculosis is unknown. Here we
report that, unlike the cholesterol-laden cells of atherosclerosis, foam cells in
tuberculous lung lesions accumulate triglycerides. Consequently, the biogenesis
of foam cells varies with the underlying disease. In vitro mechanistic studies
showed that triglyceride accumulation in human macrophages infected with
Mycobacterium tuberculosis is mediated by TNF receptor signaling through
downstream activation of the caspase cascade and the mammalian target of
rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1). These features are distinct from the known
biogenesis of atherogenic foam cells and establish a new paradigm for
non-atherogenic foam cell formation. Moreover, they reveal novel targets for
disease-specific pharmacological interventions against maladaptive macrophage
responses.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.ppat.1007223 
PMCID: PMC6117085
PMID: 30161232  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: I have read the journal's policy and the authors 
of this manuscript have the following competing interests: Hugh Salamon is
affiliated to the commercial company Knowledge Synthesis Inc.


652. PLoS One. 2018 Aug 23;13(8):e0202770. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0202770.
eCollection 2018.

Charting the onset of Parkinson-like motor and non-motor symptoms in nonhuman
primate model of Parkinson's disease.

Choudhury GR(1), Daadi MM(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Southwest National Primate Research Center, Texas Biomedical Research
Institute, San Antonio, Texas, United States of America.
(2)Research Imaging Institute, Departments of Radiology, Cell Systems & Anatomy, 
University of Texas Health at San Antonio, Texas, United States of America.

Parkinson's disease is a progressive neurodegenerative disease increasingly
affecting our aging population. Remarkable advances have been made in developing 
novel therapies to control symptoms, halt or cure the disease, ranging from
physiotherapy and small molecules to cell and gene therapy. This progress was
enabled by the existence of reliable animal models. The nonhuman primate model of
Parkinson's disease emulates the cardinal symptoms of the disease, including
tremor, rigidity, bradykinesia, postural instability, freezing and cognitive
impairment. However, this model is established through the specific loss of
midbrain dopaminergic neurons, while our current knowledge reflects the reality
of Parkinson's disease as a multisystem disease. Parkinson's disease involves
both motor and non-motor symptoms, such as sleep disturbance, olfaction,
gastrointestinal dysfunctions, depression and cognitive deficits. Some of the
non-motor symptoms emerge earlier at the prodromal phase and worsen with disease 
progression, yet in basic and translational studies, they are rarely considered
as endpoints. In this study, we set to characterize an ensemble of less described
motor and non-motor dysfunctions in the marmoset MPTP
(1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine) model. We provide evidence that
this animal model expresses postural head tremor and a progressive worsening of
fine motor skills, movement coordination and cognitive abilities over a 6-month
period. We report for the first time a non-invasive approach showing detailed
analysis of daytime and nighttime sleep and circadian rhythm disturbance
remarkably similar to Parkinson's disease patients. This study describes the
incidence of tremors, motor and non-motor dysfunctions in a preclinical model and
highlights the need for their consideration in translating effective new
therapeutic approaches for Parkinson's disease.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0202770 
PMCID: PMC6107255
PMID: 30138454  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Dr. Marcel M. Daadi is founder of the biotech
company NeoNeuron. This does not alter our adherence to PLOS ONE policies on
sharing data and materials.

