

653. Cell Rep. 2018 Aug 21;24(8):2191-2195.e4. doi: 10.1016/j.celrep.2018.07.057.

Calcium Transient Dynamics of Neural Ensembles in the Primary Motor Cortex of
Naturally Behaving Monkeys.

Kondo T(1), Saito R(2), Otaka M(2), Yoshino-Saito K(3), Yamanaka A(4), Yamamori
T(5), Watakabe A(5), Mizukami H(6), Schnitzer MJ(7), Tanaka KF(8), Ushiba J(9),
Okano H(10).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan;
Laboratory for Marmoset Neural Architecture, RIKEN Center for Brain Science,
Saitama, Japan.
(2)Graduate School of Science and Technology, Keio University, Kanagawa, Japan.
(3)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan;
Japan Society for the Promotion of Science, Tokyo, Japan.
(4)Research Institute of Environmental Medicine, Nagoya University, Nagoya,
Japan.
(5)Laboratory for Molecular Analysis of Higher Brain Function, RIKEN Center for
Brain Science, Saitama, Japan.
(6)Division of Genetic Therapeutics, Center for Molecular Medicine, Jichi Medical
University, Tochigi, Japan.
(7)James H. Clark Center for Biomedical Engineering and Sciences, Stanford
University, Stanford, CA, USA; CNC Program, Stanford University, Stanford, CA,
USA; Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Stanford University, Stanford, CA, USA.
(8)Laboratory for Marmoset Neural Architecture, RIKEN Center for Brain Science,
Saitama, Japan; Department of Neuropsychiatry, Keio University School of
Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.
(9)Department of Biosciences and Informatics, Faculty of Science and Technology, 
Keio University, Kanagawa, Japan; Keio Institute of Pure and Applied Sciences
(KiPAS), Kanagawa, Japan. Electronic address: ushiba@brain.bio.keio.ac.jp.
(10)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan;
Laboratory for Marmoset Neural Architecture, RIKEN Center for Brain Science,
Saitama, Japan. Electronic address: hidokano@a2.keio.jp.

To understand brain circuits of cognitive behaviors under natural conditions, we 
developed techniques for imaging neuronal activities from large neuronal
populations in the deep layer cortex of the naturally behaving common marmoset.
Animals retrieved food pellets or climbed ladders as a miniature fluorescence
microscope monitored hundreds of calcium indicator-expressing cortical neurons in
the right primary motor cortex. This technique, which can be adapted to other
brain regions, can deepen our understanding of brain circuits by facilitating
longitudinal population analyses of neuronal representation associated with
cognitive naturalistic behaviors and their pathophysiological processes.

Copyright © 2018 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.celrep.2018.07.057 
PMID: 30134178  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


654. Am J Primatol. 2019 Feb;81(2):e22905. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22905. Epub 2018 Aug 14.

Maintenance of bone mass despite estrogen depletion in female common marmoset
monkeys (Callithrix jacchus).

Saltzman W(1), Abbott DH(2)(3), Binkley N(4)(5), Colman RJ(2)(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Evolution, Ecology, and Organismal Biology, University of
California, Riverside, California.
(2)University of Wisconsin, Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, Madison, 
Wisconsin.
(3)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Wisconsin, Madison,
Wisconsin.
(4)Institute on Aging, University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wisconsin.
(5)Department of Medicine, University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wisconsin.
(6)Department of Cell and Regenerative Biology, University of Wisconsin, Madison,
Wisconsin.

Estrogen depletion leads to bone loss in almost all mammals with frequent regular
ovarian cycles. However, subordinate adult female common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus) undergo socially induced anovulation and hypoestrogenism without
clinically apparent adverse skeletal consequences. Thus, we speculated that this 
non human primate might have evolved a mechanism to avoid estrogen-depletion bone
loss. To test this possibility, we performed three experiments in which
lumbar-spine (L5-L6) bone mineral content (BMC) and density (BMD) were assessed
using dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry: (i) cross-sectionally in 13 long-term
ovariectomized animals and 12 age- and weight-matched controls undergoing
ovulatory cycles; (ii) longitudinally in 12 animals prior to, 3-4 and 6-7 months 
following ovariectomy (ovx), and six controls; and (iii) cross-sectionally in
nine anovulatory subordinate and nine dominant females. In Experiments 1 and 3,
plasma estradiol and estrone concentrations were measured and uterine dimensions 
were obtained by ultrasound in a subset of animals as a marker of functional
estrogen depletion. Estrogen levels, uterine trans-fundus width, and uterine
dorso-ventral diameter were lower in ovariectomized and subordinate females than 
in those undergoing ovulatory cycles. However, no differences were found in L5-L6
BMC or BMD. These results indicate that estrogen depletion, whether surgically or
socially induced, is not associated with lower bone mass in female common
marmosets. Thus, this species may possess unique adaptations to avoid bone loss
associated with estrogen depletion.

© 2018 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22905 
PMCID: PMC7336524
PMID: 30106167  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

