

684. Am J Primatol. 2018 Jul;80(7):e22879. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22879. Epub 2018 Jun 4.

Quantification of hair cortisol concentration in common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus) and tufted capuchins (Cebus apella).

Phillips KA(1)(2), Tukan AN(1), Rigodanzo AD(1), Reusch RT(1), Brasky KM(2),
Meyer JS(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Trinity University, San Antonio, Texas.
(2)Southwest National Primate Research Center, Texas Biomedical Research
Institute, San Antonio, Texas.
(3)Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences, University of
Massachusetts-Amherst, Amherst, Massachusetts.

Quantifying cortisol concentration in hair is a non-invasive biomarker of
long-term hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) activation, and thus can provide
important information on laboratory animal health. Marmosets (Callithrix jacchus)
and capuchins (Cebus apella) are New World primates increasingly used in
biomedical and neuroscience research, yet published hair cortisol concentrations 
for these species are limited. Review of the existing published hair cortisol
values from marmosets reveals highly discrepant values and the use of variable
techniques for hair collection, processing, and cortisol extraction. In this
investigation we utilized a well-established, standardized protocol to extract
and quantify cortisol from marmoset (n = 12) and capuchin (n = 4) hair. Shaved
hair samples were collected from the upper thigh during scheduled exams and
analyzed via methanol extraction and enzyme immunoassay. In marmosets, hair
cortisol concentration ranged from 2,710 to 6,267 pg/mg and averaged
4,070 ± 304 pg/mg. In capuchins, hair cortisol concentration ranged from 621 to
2,089 pg/mg and averaged 1,092 ± 338 pg/mg. Hair cortisol concentration was
significantly different between marmosets and capuchins, with marmosets having
higher concentrations than capuchins. The incorporation of hair cortisol analysis
into research protocols provides a non-invasive measure of HPA axis activity over
time, which offers insight into animal health. Utilization of standard protocols 
across laboratories is essential to obtaining valid measurements and allowing for
valuable future cross-species comparisons.

© 2018 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22879 
PMCID: PMC6481164
PMID: 29862532  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


685. J Proteomics. 2019 Jan 16;191:1-15. doi: 10.1016/j.jprot.2018.05.016. Epub 2018
May 30.

Topographic protein profiling of the age-related proteome in the retinal pigment 
epithelium of Callithrix jacchus with respect to macular degeneration.

König S(1), Hadrian K(2), Schlatt S(3), Wistuba J(3), Thanos S(4), Böhm MRR(5).

Author information: 
(1)Interdisciplinary Centre for Clinical Research (IZKF), Core Unit Proteomics,
Westfalian Wilhelms-University of Münster, Münster, Germany.
(2)Department of Ophthalmology, University Hospital Essen, Essen, Germany.
(3)Centre for Reproductive Medicine and Andrology (CeRA), Westfalian
Wilhelms-University of Münster, Münster, Germany.
(4)Institute for Experimental Ophthalmology, Westfalian Wilhelms-University of
Münster, Münster, Germany.
(5)Department of Ophthalmology, University Hospital Essen, Essen, Germany.
Electronic address: michael.boehm@uk-essen.de.

In the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) several factors within the macular
compared to peripheral regions cause differences in physiological aging. The
molecular mechanisms during aging in the context of topography are not well
known. The proteome of RPE of different aged macular-bearing primates Callithrix 
jacchus was thus analysed with ion mobility mass spectrometry. Macular and
periphery of neonate RPE were well differentiated from aged tissues as
demonstrated by principal component analysis. This finding was mainly due to
proteins involved in major developmental processes and the visual cycle. The
distinction of adult from senile tissue and macular from periphery was more
subtle. The hypotheses of inflammation increasing with age was supported. High
expression levels of proteins related to oxidative stress (e.g., cathepsin B) and
chaperones (e.g., HSP90) were detected in aged RPE as confirmed by Western blot
and immunohistochemical analysis. Decreased levels of proteins participating in
angiostatic properties (e.g., thrombospondin 1) and the integrity of tissue
basement membranes with age (e.g., nidogen 1) were in agreement with
neovascularization. This study presents targets for further investigations of the
mechanisms of the aging process with the aim to elucidate predictive factors for 
the conversion of physiological aging into pathological conditions. SIGNIFICANCE:
The current study characterized the different protein profiles of the retinal
pigment epithelium (RPE) of the macula-bearing, non-human primate Callithrix
jacchus during life-time. In addition, the subproteomes of macular and peripheral
RPE were investigated. Differently expressed proteins described developmental
processes in neonate tissue and destructive mechanisms in aged samples. Insights 
into the physiological aging process of the RPE and its conversion into
pathophysiological conditions were gained. They assist in designing therapeutical
approaches to counteract age-related diseases of the retina.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jprot.2018.05.016 
PMID: 29859334  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

