

696. Brain. 2018 Jun 1;141(6):1637-1649. doi: 10.1093/brain/awy082.

Spatiotemporal distribution of fibrinogen in marmoset and human inflammatory
demyelination.

Lee NJ(1)(2), Ha SK(1), Sati P(1), Absinta M(1), Luciano NJ(1), Lefeuvre JA(1),
Schindler MK(1), Leibovitch EC(3), Ryu JK(4), Petersen MA(4)(5), Silva AC(6),
Jacobson S(3), Akassoglou K(4)(7), Reich DS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Translational Neuroradiology Section, National Institute of Neurological
Disorders and Stroke, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.
(2)Department of Neuroscience, Georgetown University Medical Center, Georgetown
University, Washington, DC 20007, USA.
(3)Viral Immunology Section, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and
Stroke, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.
(4)Gladstone Institutes, San Francisco, CA 94158, USA.
(5)Department of Pediatrics, University of California San Francisco, San
Francisco, CA 94158, USA.
(6)Cerebral Microcirculation Section, National Institute of Neurological
Disorders and Stroke, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.
(7)Department of Neurology, University of California San Francisco, San
Francisco, CA 94158, USA.

Multiple sclerosis is an inflammatory demyelinating disease of the central
nervous system. Although it has been extensively studied, the proximate trigger
of the immune response remains uncertain. Experimental autoimmune
encephalomyelitis in the common marmoset recapitulates many radiological and
pathological features of focal multiple sclerosis lesions in the cerebral white
matter, unlike traditional experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis in rodents. 
This provides an opportunity to investigate how lesions form as well as the
relative timing of factors involved in lesion pathogenesis, especially during
early stages of the disease. We used MRI to track experimental autoimmune
encephalomyelitis lesions in vivo to determine their age, stage of development,
and location, and we assessed the corresponding histopathology post-mortem. We
focused on the plasma protein fibrinogen-a marker for blood-brain barrier leakage
that has also been linked to a pathogenic role in inflammatory demyelinating
lesion development. We show that fibrinogen has a specific spatiotemporal
deposition pattern, apparently deriving from the central vein in early
experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis lesions <6 weeks old, and preceding
both demyelination and visible gadolinium enhancement on MRI. Thus, fibrinogen
leakage is one of the earliest detectable events in lesion pathogenesis. In
slightly older lesions, fibrinogen is found inside microglia/macrophages,
suggesting rapid phagocytosis. Quantification demonstrates positive correlation
of fibrinogen deposition with accumulation of inflammatory cells, including
microglia/macrophages and T cells. The peak of fibrinogen deposition coincides
with the onset of demyelination and axonal loss. In samples from chronic multiple
sclerosis cases, fibrinogen was found at the edge of chronic active lesions,
which have ongoing demyelination and inflammation, but not in inactive lesions,
suggesting that fibrinogen may play a role in sustained inflammation even in the 
chronic setting. In summary, our data support the notion that fibrinogen is a key
player in the early pathogenesis, as well as sustained inflammation, of
inflammatory demyelinating lesions.

DOI: 10.1093/brain/awy082 
PMCID: PMC5972667
PMID: 29688408  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


697. Mol Hum Reprod. 2018 Jun 1;24(6):299-309. doi: 10.1093/molehr/gay017.

Spermatogonial behavior in marmoset: a new generation, their kinetics and niche.

Caldeira-Brant AL(1), Eras-Garcia L(1), Alves-Freitas D(1), Almeida FRCL(1),
Chiarini-Garcia H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Biologia Estrutural e Reprodução, Departamento de Morfologia,
Instituto de Ciências Biológicas-ICB, Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais-UFMG, 
31.270-901 Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil.

STUDY QUESTION: Could a more detailed evaluation of marmoset spermatogonial
morphology, kinetics and niches using high-resolution light microscopy (HRLM)
lead to new findings?
SUMMARY ANSWER: Three subtypes of marmoset undifferentiated spermatogonia, which 
were not evenly distributed in terms of number and position along the basal
membrane, and an extra premeiotic cell division not present in humans were
identified using HRLM.
WHAT IS KNOWN ALREADY: The seminiferous epithelium cycle (SEC) of marmosets is
divided into nine stages when based on the acrosome system, and several
spermatogenic stages can usually be recognized within the same tubular
cross-section. Three spermatogonial generations have been previously described in
marmosets: types Adark, Apale and B spermatogonia.
STUDY DESIGN, SIZE, DURATION: Testes from five adult Callithrix penicillata were 
fixed by glutaraldehyde perfusion via the cardiac route and embedded in Araldite 
plastic resin for HRLM evaluation. Semi-thin sections (1 μm) were analyzed
morphologically and morphometrically to evaluate spermatogonial morphology and
kinetics (number, mitosis and apoptosis), spermatogenesis efficiency and the
spermatogonial niche.
PARTICIPANTS/MATERIALS, SETTING, METHODS: Shape and nuclear diameter, the
presence and distribution of heterochromatin, the granularity of the euchromatin,
as well as the number, morphology and degree of nucleolar compaction were
observed for morphological characterization. Kinetics analyses were performed for
all spermatogonial subtypes and preleptotene spermatocytes, and their mitosis and
apoptosis indexes determined across all SEC stages. Spermatogenesis parameters
(mitotic, meiotic, Sertoli cell workload and general spermatogenesis efficiency) 
were determined through the counting of Adark and Apale spermatogonia,
preleptotene and pachytene primary spermatocytes, round spermatids, and Sertoli
cells at stage IV of the SEC.
MAIN RESULTS AND THE ROLE OF CHANCE: This is the first time that a study in
marmosets demonstrates: the existence of a new spermatogonial generation (B2);
the presence of two subtypes of Adark spermatogonia with (AdVac) and without
(AdNoVac) nuclear rarefaction zones; the peculiar behavior of AdVac spermatogonia
across the stages of the SEC, suggesting that they are quiescent stem
spermatogonia; and that AdVac spermatogonia are located close to areas in which
blood vessels, Leydig cells and macrophages are concentrated, suggesting a niche 
area for these cells.
LARGE SCALE DATA: Not applicable.
LIMITATIONS, REASONS FOR CAUTION: The C. penicillata spermatogonial kinetics
evaluated here consider spermatogonial number across the SEC and their mitotic
and apoptotic figures identified in HRLM sections. Therefore, caution is required
when comparing absolute values between species. Although morphometric evaluation 
has suggested that AdVac spermatogonia are stem cells, a functional proof of this
is still missing. It is known that parameters of the spermatogenic process in C. 
penicillata have similarities with those of the common marmoset C. jacchus,
however, a detailed study of spermatogonial morphology, kinetics and niche has
not yet been performed in C. jacchus, and a full comparison of the two species is
not possible.
WIDER IMPLICATIONS OF THE FINDINGS: Our findings in C. penicillata contribute to 
a better understanding of the spermatogonial behavior and spermatogenesis
efficiency in non-human primates. Given the phylogenetic closeness of the
marmoset to the human species, similar processes might occur in humans.
Therefore, marmosets may be an excellent model for studies regarding human
testicular biology, fertility and related disorders.
STUDY FUNDING/COMPETING INTEREST(S): Experiments were partially supported by
Coordenação de Aperfeiçoamento de Pessoal de Nível Superior (CAPES), Fundação de 
Amparo à Pesquisa do Estado de Minas Gerais (FAPEMIG) and Conselho Nacional de
Desenvolvimento Cientifico e Tecnológico (CNPq). The authors declare that there
are no conflicts of interest.

DOI: 10.1093/molehr/gay017 
PMID: 29660000  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

