

697. Mol Hum Reprod. 2018 Jun 1;24(6):299-309. doi: 10.1093/molehr/gay017.

Spermatogonial behavior in marmoset: a new generation, their kinetics and niche.

Caldeira-Brant AL(1), Eras-Garcia L(1), Alves-Freitas D(1), Almeida FRCL(1),
Chiarini-Garcia H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Biologia Estrutural e Reprodução, Departamento de Morfologia,
Instituto de Ciências Biológicas-ICB, Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais-UFMG, 
31.270-901 Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil.

STUDY QUESTION: Could a more detailed evaluation of marmoset spermatogonial
morphology, kinetics and niches using high-resolution light microscopy (HRLM)
lead to new findings?
SUMMARY ANSWER: Three subtypes of marmoset undifferentiated spermatogonia, which 
were not evenly distributed in terms of number and position along the basal
membrane, and an extra premeiotic cell division not present in humans were
identified using HRLM.
WHAT IS KNOWN ALREADY: The seminiferous epithelium cycle (SEC) of marmosets is
divided into nine stages when based on the acrosome system, and several
spermatogenic stages can usually be recognized within the same tubular
cross-section. Three spermatogonial generations have been previously described in
marmosets: types Adark, Apale and B spermatogonia.
STUDY DESIGN, SIZE, DURATION: Testes from five adult Callithrix penicillata were 
fixed by glutaraldehyde perfusion via the cardiac route and embedded in Araldite 
plastic resin for HRLM evaluation. Semi-thin sections (1 μm) were analyzed
morphologically and morphometrically to evaluate spermatogonial morphology and
kinetics (number, mitosis and apoptosis), spermatogenesis efficiency and the
spermatogonial niche.
PARTICIPANTS/MATERIALS, SETTING, METHODS: Shape and nuclear diameter, the
presence and distribution of heterochromatin, the granularity of the euchromatin,
as well as the number, morphology and degree of nucleolar compaction were
observed for morphological characterization. Kinetics analyses were performed for
all spermatogonial subtypes and preleptotene spermatocytes, and their mitosis and
apoptosis indexes determined across all SEC stages. Spermatogenesis parameters
(mitotic, meiotic, Sertoli cell workload and general spermatogenesis efficiency) 
were determined through the counting of Adark and Apale spermatogonia,
preleptotene and pachytene primary spermatocytes, round spermatids, and Sertoli
cells at stage IV of the SEC.
MAIN RESULTS AND THE ROLE OF CHANCE: This is the first time that a study in
marmosets demonstrates: the existence of a new spermatogonial generation (B2);
the presence of two subtypes of Adark spermatogonia with (AdVac) and without
(AdNoVac) nuclear rarefaction zones; the peculiar behavior of AdVac spermatogonia
across the stages of the SEC, suggesting that they are quiescent stem
spermatogonia; and that AdVac spermatogonia are located close to areas in which
blood vessels, Leydig cells and macrophages are concentrated, suggesting a niche 
area for these cells.
LARGE SCALE DATA: Not applicable.
LIMITATIONS, REASONS FOR CAUTION: The C. penicillata spermatogonial kinetics
evaluated here consider spermatogonial number across the SEC and their mitotic
and apoptotic figures identified in HRLM sections. Therefore, caution is required
when comparing absolute values between species. Although morphometric evaluation 
has suggested that AdVac spermatogonia are stem cells, a functional proof of this
is still missing. It is known that parameters of the spermatogenic process in C. 
penicillata have similarities with those of the common marmoset C. jacchus,
however, a detailed study of spermatogonial morphology, kinetics and niche has
not yet been performed in C. jacchus, and a full comparison of the two species is
not possible.
WIDER IMPLICATIONS OF THE FINDINGS: Our findings in C. penicillata contribute to 
a better understanding of the spermatogonial behavior and spermatogenesis
efficiency in non-human primates. Given the phylogenetic closeness of the
marmoset to the human species, similar processes might occur in humans.
Therefore, marmosets may be an excellent model for studies regarding human
testicular biology, fertility and related disorders.
STUDY FUNDING/COMPETING INTEREST(S): Experiments were partially supported by
Coordenação de Aperfeiçoamento de Pessoal de Nível Superior (CAPES), Fundação de 
Amparo à Pesquisa do Estado de Minas Gerais (FAPEMIG) and Conselho Nacional de
Desenvolvimento Cientifico e Tecnológico (CNPq). The authors declare that there
are no conflicts of interest.

DOI: 10.1093/molehr/gay017 
PMID: 29660000  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


698. Sci Adv. 2018 Apr 11;4(4):eaar4012. doi: 10.1126/sciadv.aar4012. eCollection 2018
Apr.

Limiting parental interaction during vocal development affects acoustic call
structure in marmoset monkeys.

Gultekin YB(1), Hage SR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Neurobiology of Vocal Communication, Werner Reichardt Centre for Integrative
Neuroscience, University of Tübingen, Germany.

Human vocal development is dependent on learning by imitation through social
feedback between infants and caregivers. Recent studies have revealed that vocal 
development is also influenced by parental feedback in marmoset monkeys,
suggesting vocal learning mechanisms in nonhuman primates. Marmoset infants that 
experience more contingent vocal feedback than their littermates develop
vocalizations more rapidly, and infant marmosets with limited parental
interaction exhibit immature vocal behavior beyond infancy. However, it is yet
unclear whether direct parental interaction is an obligate requirement for proper
vocal development because all monkeys in the aforementioned studies were able to 
produce the adult call repertoire after infancy. Using quantitative measures to
compare distinct call parameters and vocal sequence structure, we show that
social interaction has a direct impact not only on the maturation of the vocal
behavior but also on acoustic call structures during vocal development. Monkeys
with limited parental interaction during development show systematic differences 
in call entropy, a measure for maturity, compared with their normally raised
siblings. In addition, different call types were occasionally uttered in
motif-like sequences similar to those exhibited by vocal learners, such as birds 
and humans, in early vocal development. These results indicate that a lack of
parental interaction leads to long-term disturbances in the acoustic structure of
marmoset vocalizations, suggesting an imperative role for social interaction in
proper primate vocal development.

DOI: 10.1126/sciadv.aar4012 
PMCID: PMC5895450
PMID: 29651461  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

