

698. Sci Adv. 2018 Apr 11;4(4):eaar4012. doi: 10.1126/sciadv.aar4012. eCollection 2018
Apr.

Limiting parental interaction during vocal development affects acoustic call
structure in marmoset monkeys.

Gultekin YB(1), Hage SR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Neurobiology of Vocal Communication, Werner Reichardt Centre for Integrative
Neuroscience, University of Tübingen, Germany.

Human vocal development is dependent on learning by imitation through social
feedback between infants and caregivers. Recent studies have revealed that vocal 
development is also influenced by parental feedback in marmoset monkeys,
suggesting vocal learning mechanisms in nonhuman primates. Marmoset infants that 
experience more contingent vocal feedback than their littermates develop
vocalizations more rapidly, and infant marmosets with limited parental
interaction exhibit immature vocal behavior beyond infancy. However, it is yet
unclear whether direct parental interaction is an obligate requirement for proper
vocal development because all monkeys in the aforementioned studies were able to 
produce the adult call repertoire after infancy. Using quantitative measures to
compare distinct call parameters and vocal sequence structure, we show that
social interaction has a direct impact not only on the maturation of the vocal
behavior but also on acoustic call structures during vocal development. Monkeys
with limited parental interaction during development show systematic differences 
in call entropy, a measure for maturity, compared with their normally raised
siblings. In addition, different call types were occasionally uttered in
motif-like sequences similar to those exhibited by vocal learners, such as birds 
and humans, in early vocal development. These results indicate that a lack of
parental interaction leads to long-term disturbances in the acoustic structure of
marmoset vocalizations, suggesting an imperative role for social interaction in
proper primate vocal development.

DOI: 10.1126/sciadv.aar4012 
PMCID: PMC5895450
PMID: 29651461  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


699. Vet Anaesth Analg. 2018 May;45(3):309-319. doi: 10.1016/j.vaa.2017.06.009. Epub
2018 Feb 5.

Effects of buprenorphine, butorphanol or tramadol premedication on anaesthetic
induction with alfaxalone in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Bakker J(1), Roubos S(2), Remarque EJ(3), Arndt SS(2), Kronen PW(4), Langermans
JA(5).

Author information: 
(1)Animal Science Department, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Rijswijk, The
Netherlands. Electronic address: bakker@bprc.nl.
(2)Department of Animals in Science & Society, Division of Animal Welfare &
Laboratory Animal Science, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine Utrecht University,
Utrecht, The Netherlands.
(3)Department of Parasitology, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Rijswijk, The 
Netherlands.
(4)Veterinary Anaesthesia Services - International, Winterthur, Switzerland.
(5)Animal Science Department, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Rijswijk, The
Netherlands.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the clinical and physiological effects of intravenous
(IV) alfaxalone alone or in combination with buprenorphine, butorphanol or
tramadol premedication in marmosets.
STUDY DESIGN: Prospective, randomized, blinded, crossover design.
ANIMALS: Nine healthy marmosets (391 ± 48 g, 3.7 ± 2.2 years old).
METHODS: Meloxicam 0.20 mg kg-1 subcutaneously, atropine 0.05 mg kg-1
intramuscularly (IM) and either buprenorphine 20 μg kg-1 IM (BUP-A), butorphanol 
0.2 mg kg-1 IM (BUT-A), tramadol 1.5 mg kg-1 IM (TRA-A) or no additional drug
(control) were administered to all marmosets as premedication. After 1 hour,
anaesthesia was induced with 16 mg kg-1 alfaxalone IV. All animals received all
protocols. The order of protocol allocation was randomized with a minimum 28 day 
wash-out period. During anaesthesia, respiratory and pulse rates, rectal
temperature, haemoglobin oxygen saturation, arterial blood pressure, palpebral
and pedal withdrawal reflexes and degree of muscle relaxation were assessed and
recorded every 5 minutes. Quality of induction and recovery were assessed.
Duration of induction, immobilization and recovery were recorded. Blood samples
were analysed for aspartate aminotransferase, creatine kinase and lactate
dehydrogenase concentrations. The protocols were compared using paired t tests,
Wilcoxon's signed-rank test with Bonferroni's corrections and linear mixed effect
models where appropriate.
RESULTS: Out of nine animals, apnoea was noted in eight animals administered
protocol BUP-A and two animals administered protocol BUT-A. With TRA-A and
control protocols, apnoea was not observed. No other significant differences in
any of the parameters were found; however, low arterial blood pressures and
hypoxia occurred in TRA-A.
CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Our study employing different premedications 
suggests that the previously published dose of 16 mg kg-1 alfaxalone is too high 
when used with premedication because we found a high incidence of complications
including apnoea (BUP-A), hypotension and hypoxaemia (TRA-A). Appropriate
monitoring and countermeasures are recommended.

Copyright © 2018 Association of Veterinary Anaesthetists and American College of 
Veterinary Anesthesia and Analgesia. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaa.2017.06.009 
PMID: 29628389  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

