

715. Am J Primatol. 2018 Oct;80(10):e22750. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22750. Epub 2018 Mar 11.

Oxytocin regulates reunion affiliation with a pairmate following social
separation in marmosets.

Cavanaugh J(1), Mustoe A(1)(2), French JA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska at Omaha, Omaha, Nebraska.
(2)Department of Biology, University of Nebraska at Omaha, Omaha, Nebraska.

While separation from significant social partners produces a host of
neurobiological and behavioral perturbations, including behavioral distress and
increased glucocorticoid production, positive social interactions upon reunion
are critical for the reestablishment of normative relationship dynamics and the
attenuation of the biobehavioral stress response. The hormone oxytocin has
critical and pervasive roles in reproductive and behavioral processes across the 
lifespan, and plays a particularly prominent role in social bonding. In this
study, we examined the extent that oxytocin modulates interactions with a
pairmate following separation challenges that varied in both social context
(isolation; separation) and duration (long; short), in marmosets. We demonstrated
that the impact of pharmacological manipulations of the oxytocin system on the
expression of affiliation upon reunion depended on both the context and duration 
of the separation challenge. Specifically, marmosets treated with an oxytocin
antagonist spent less time in proximity with their pairmate upon reunion
following a long-separation challenge. During the short-separation challenge,
marmosets engaged in more social gaze when separated with an opposite-sex
stranger, but not when separated with their mate. Furthermore, marmosets that
received the most social gaze from opposite-sex strangers spent the most time in 
proximity with their long-term mate upon reunion. We also showed that marmosets
treated with an OT agonist received increased levels of gaze from opposite-sex
strangers, but not from their mate. Overall, these results suggest that marmosets
are sensitive to the nature of the social interactions during separation, and
subsequently alter their expression of affiliation upon reunion with their
long-term mate. These findings further implicate oxytocin as a bond-enhancing
molecule that regulates the reestablishment of normative levels of affiliation
with a mate following separation, and add to the emerging literature that
suggests the OT system underlies critical behavioral processes that contribute to
the preservation of long-lasting social bonds.

© 2018 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22750 
PMCID: PMC6133767
PMID: 29527695  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


716. J Pharmacol Exp Ther. 2018 May;365(2):379-397. doi: 10.1124/jpet.117.247171. Epub
2018 Mar 9.

Predictive Value of Parkinsonian Primates in Pharmacologic Studies: A Comparison 
between the Macaque, Marmoset, and Squirrel Monkey.

Veyres N(1), Hamadjida A(1), Huot P(2).

Author information: 
(1)Centre de Recherche du Centre Hospitalier de l'Université de Montréal
(N.V.),Montreal Neurological Institute (A.H.,P.H.), and Department of Neurology
and Neurosurgery, McGill University (P.H.), Montreal, Quebec, Canada.
(2)Centre de Recherche du Centre Hospitalier de l'Université de Montréal
(N.V.),Montreal Neurological Institute (A.H.,P.H.), and Department of Neurology
and Neurosurgery, McGill University (P.H.), Montreal, Quebec, Canada
philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.

The 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-lesioned primate is the
gold-standard animal model of Parkinson disease (PD) and has been used to assess 
the effectiveness of experimental drugs on dyskinesia, parkinsonism, and
psychosis. Three species have been used in most studies-the macaque, marmoset,
and squirrel monkey-the last much less so than the first two species; however,
the predictive value of each species at forecasting clinical efficacy, or lack
thereof, is poorly documented. Here, we have reviewed all the published
literature detailing pharmacologic studies that assessed the effects of
experimental drugs on dyskinesia, parkinsonism, and psychosis in each of these
species and have calculated their predictive value of success and failure at the 
clinical level. We found that, for dyskinesia, the macaque has a positive
predictive value of 87.5% and a false-positive rate of 38.1%, whereas the
marmoset has a positive predictive value of 76.9% and a false-positive rate of
15.6%. For parkinsonism, the macaque has a positive predictive value of 68.2% and
a false-positive rate of 44.4%, whereas the marmoset has a positive predictive
value of 86.9% and a false-positive rate of 41.7%. No drug that alleviates
psychosis in the clinic has shown efficacy at doing so in the macaque, whereas
the marmoset has 100% positive predictive value. The small number of studies
conducted in the squirrel monkey precluded us from calculating its predictive
efficacy. We hope our results will help in the design of pharmacologic
experiments and will facilitate the drug discovery and development process in PD.

Copyright © 2018 by The American Society for Pharmacology and Experimental
Therapeutics.

DOI: 10.1124/jpet.117.247171 
PMID: 29523699  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

