

716. J Pharmacol Exp Ther. 2018 May;365(2):379-397. doi: 10.1124/jpet.117.247171. Epub
2018 Mar 9.

Predictive Value of Parkinsonian Primates in Pharmacologic Studies: A Comparison 
between the Macaque, Marmoset, and Squirrel Monkey.

Veyres N(1), Hamadjida A(1), Huot P(2).

Author information: 
(1)Centre de Recherche du Centre Hospitalier de l'Université de Montréal
(N.V.),Montreal Neurological Institute (A.H.,P.H.), and Department of Neurology
and Neurosurgery, McGill University (P.H.), Montreal, Quebec, Canada.
(2)Centre de Recherche du Centre Hospitalier de l'Université de Montréal
(N.V.),Montreal Neurological Institute (A.H.,P.H.), and Department of Neurology
and Neurosurgery, McGill University (P.H.), Montreal, Quebec, Canada
philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.

The 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-lesioned primate is the
gold-standard animal model of Parkinson disease (PD) and has been used to assess 
the effectiveness of experimental drugs on dyskinesia, parkinsonism, and
psychosis. Three species have been used in most studies-the macaque, marmoset,
and squirrel monkey-the last much less so than the first two species; however,
the predictive value of each species at forecasting clinical efficacy, or lack
thereof, is poorly documented. Here, we have reviewed all the published
literature detailing pharmacologic studies that assessed the effects of
experimental drugs on dyskinesia, parkinsonism, and psychosis in each of these
species and have calculated their predictive value of success and failure at the 
clinical level. We found that, for dyskinesia, the macaque has a positive
predictive value of 87.5% and a false-positive rate of 38.1%, whereas the
marmoset has a positive predictive value of 76.9% and a false-positive rate of
15.6%. For parkinsonism, the macaque has a positive predictive value of 68.2% and
a false-positive rate of 44.4%, whereas the marmoset has a positive predictive
value of 86.9% and a false-positive rate of 41.7%. No drug that alleviates
psychosis in the clinic has shown efficacy at doing so in the macaque, whereas
the marmoset has 100% positive predictive value. The small number of studies
conducted in the squirrel monkey precluded us from calculating its predictive
efficacy. We hope our results will help in the design of pharmacologic
experiments and will facilitate the drug discovery and development process in PD.

Copyright © 2018 by The American Society for Pharmacology and Experimental
Therapeutics.

DOI: 10.1124/jpet.117.247171 
PMID: 29523699  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


717. J Neural Eng. 2018 Jun;15(3):036019. doi: 10.1088/1741-2552/aab307. Epub 2018 Mar
1.

Accurate motor mapping in awake common marmosets using
micro-electrocorticographical stimulation and stochastic threshold estimation.

Kosugi A(1), Takemi M, Tia B, Castagnola E, Ansaldo A, Sato K, Awiszus F, Seki K,
Ricci D, Fadiga L, Iriki A, Ushiba J.

Author information: 
(1)Graduate School of Science and Technology, Keio University, Kanagawa, Japan.
Laboratory for Symbolic Cognitive Development, RIKEN Brain Science Institute,
Saitama, Japan. Department of Neurophysiology, National Institute of
Neuroscience, Tokyo, Japan.

OBJECTIVE: Motor map has been widely used as an indicator of motor skills and
learning, cortical injury, plasticity, and functional recovery. Cortical
stimulation mapping using epidural electrodes is recently adopted for animal
studies. However, several technical limitations still remain. Test-retest
reliability of epidural cortical stimulation (ECS) mapping has not been examined 
in detail. Many previous studies defined evoked movements and motor thresholds by
visual inspection, and thus, lacked quantitative measurements. A reliable and
quantitative motor map is important to elucidate the mechanisms of motor cortical
reorganization. The objective of the current study was to perform reliable ECS
mapping of motor representations based on the motor thresholds, which were
stochastically estimated by motor evoked potentials and chronically implanted
micro-electrocorticographical (µECoG) electrode arrays, in common marmosets.
APPROACH: ECS was applied using the implanted µECoG electrode arrays in three
adult common marmosets under awake conditions. Motor evoked potentials were
recorded through electromyographical electrodes implanted in upper limb muscles. 
The motor threshold was calculated through a modified maximum likelihood
threshold-hunting algorithm fitted with the recorded data from marmosets.
Further, a computer simulation confirmed reliability of the algorithm.
MAIN RESULTS: Computer simulation suggested that the modified maximum likelihood 
threshold-hunting algorithm enabled to estimate motor threshold with acceptable
precision. In vivo ECS mapping showed high test-retest reliability with respect
to the excitability and location of the cortical forelimb motor representations.
SIGNIFICANCE: Using implanted µECoG electrode arrays and a modified motor
threshold-hunting algorithm, we were able to achieve reliable motor mapping in
common marmosets with the ECS system.

DOI: 10.1088/1741-2552/aab307 
PMID: 29491189  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

