

717. J Neural Eng. 2018 Jun;15(3):036019. doi: 10.1088/1741-2552/aab307. Epub 2018 Mar
1.

Accurate motor mapping in awake common marmosets using
micro-electrocorticographical stimulation and stochastic threshold estimation.

Kosugi A(1), Takemi M, Tia B, Castagnola E, Ansaldo A, Sato K, Awiszus F, Seki K,
Ricci D, Fadiga L, Iriki A, Ushiba J.

Author information: 
(1)Graduate School of Science and Technology, Keio University, Kanagawa, Japan.
Laboratory for Symbolic Cognitive Development, RIKEN Brain Science Institute,
Saitama, Japan. Department of Neurophysiology, National Institute of
Neuroscience, Tokyo, Japan.

OBJECTIVE: Motor map has been widely used as an indicator of motor skills and
learning, cortical injury, plasticity, and functional recovery. Cortical
stimulation mapping using epidural electrodes is recently adopted for animal
studies. However, several technical limitations still remain. Test-retest
reliability of epidural cortical stimulation (ECS) mapping has not been examined 
in detail. Many previous studies defined evoked movements and motor thresholds by
visual inspection, and thus, lacked quantitative measurements. A reliable and
quantitative motor map is important to elucidate the mechanisms of motor cortical
reorganization. The objective of the current study was to perform reliable ECS
mapping of motor representations based on the motor thresholds, which were
stochastically estimated by motor evoked potentials and chronically implanted
micro-electrocorticographical (µECoG) electrode arrays, in common marmosets.
APPROACH: ECS was applied using the implanted µECoG electrode arrays in three
adult common marmosets under awake conditions. Motor evoked potentials were
recorded through electromyographical electrodes implanted in upper limb muscles. 
The motor threshold was calculated through a modified maximum likelihood
threshold-hunting algorithm fitted with the recorded data from marmosets.
Further, a computer simulation confirmed reliability of the algorithm.
MAIN RESULTS: Computer simulation suggested that the modified maximum likelihood 
threshold-hunting algorithm enabled to estimate motor threshold with acceptable
precision. In vivo ECS mapping showed high test-retest reliability with respect
to the excitability and location of the cortical forelimb motor representations.
SIGNIFICANCE: Using implanted µECoG electrode arrays and a modified motor
threshold-hunting algorithm, we were able to achieve reliable motor mapping in
common marmosets with the ECS system.

DOI: 10.1088/1741-2552/aab307 
PMID: 29491189  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


718. Am J Primatol. 2018 Mar;80(3):e22744. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22744. Epub 2018 Feb 28.

Small but wise: Common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) use acoustic signals as
cues to avoid interactions with blonde capuchin monkeys (Sapajus flavius).

Bastos M(1), Medeiros K(1), Jones G(2), Bezerra B(1).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Zoologia, Centro de Biociências, Programa de Pós-Graduação em 
Biologia Animal, Universidade Federal de Pernambuco, Recife, Brazil.
(2)School of Biological Sciences, University of Bristol, Bristol, United Kingdom.

Vocalizations are often used by animals to communicate and mediate social
interactions. Animals may benefit from eavesdropping on calls from other species 
to avoid predation and thus increase their chances of survival. Here we use both 
observational and experimental evidence to investigate eavesdropping and how
acoustic signals may mediate interactions between two sympatric and endemic
primate species (common marmosets and blonde capuchin monkeys) in a fragment of
Atlantic Rainforest in Northeastern Brazil. We observed 22 natural vocal
encounters between the study species, but no evident visual or physical contact
over the study period. These two species seem to use the same area throughout the
day, but at different times. We broadcasted alarm and long distance calls to and 
from both species as well as two control stimuli (i.e., forest background noise
and a loud call from an Amazonian primate) in our playback experiments. Common
marmosets showed anti-predator behavior (i.e., vigilance and flight) when exposed
to blonde capuchin calls both naturally and experimentally. However, blonde
capuchin monkeys showed no anti-predator behavior in response to common marmoset 
calls. Blonde capuchins uttered long distance calls and looked in the direction
of the speaker following exposure to their own long distance call, whereas they
fled when exposed to their own alarm calls. Both blonde capuchin monkeys and
common marmosets showed fear behaviors in response to the loud call from a
primate species unknown to them, and showed no apparent response to the forest
background noise. Common marmoset responses to blonde capuchin calls suggests
that the latter is a potential predator. Furthermore, common marmosets appear to 
be eavesdropping on calls from blonde capuchin monkeys to avoid potentially
costly encounters with them.

© 2018 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22744 
PMID: 29488642  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

