

741. Cereb Cortex. 2019 Mar 1;29(3):994-1005. doi: 10.1093/cercor/bhy006.

Subthreshold Activity Underlying the Diversity and Selectivity of the Primary
Auditory Cortex Studied by Intracellular Recordings in Awake Marmosets.

Gao L(1)(2), Wang X(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(2)Interdisciplinary Institute of Neuroscience and Technology, Qiushi Academy for
Advanced Studies, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, People's Republic of China.

Extracellular recording studies have revealed diverse and selective neural
responses in the primary auditory cortex (A1) of awake animals. However, we have 
limited knowledge on subthreshold events that give rise to these responses,
especially in non-human primates, as intracellular recordings in awake animals
pose substantial technical challenges. We developed a novel intracellular
recording technique in awake marmosets to systematically study subthreshold
activity of A1 neurons that underlies their diverse and selective spiking
responses. Our findings showed that in contrast to predominantly transient
depolarization observed in A1 of anesthetized animals, both transient and
sustained depolarization (during or beyond the stimulus period) were observed.
Comparing with spiking responses, subthreshold responses were often longer
lasting in duration and more broadly tuned in frequency, and showed narrower
intensity tuning in non-monotonic neurons and lower response threshold in
monotonic neurons. These observations demonstrated the enhancement of stimulus
selectivity from subthreshold to spiking responses in individual A1 neurons.
Furthermore, A1 neurons classified as regular- or fast-spiking subpopulation
based on their spike shapes exhibited distinct response properties in frequency
and intensity domains. These findings provide valuable insights into cortical
integration and transformation of auditory information at the cellular level in
auditory cortex of awake non-human primates.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhy006 
PMCID: PMC6373684
PMID: 29377991  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


742. Behav Brain Res. 2018 May 2;343:36-40. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2018.01.013. Epub 2018 
Jan 31.

Inequity aversion is observed in common marmosets but not in marmoset models of
autism induced by prenatal exposure to valproic acid.

Yasue M(1), Nakagami A(1), Nakagaki K(2), Ichinohe N(3), Kawai N(4).

Author information: 
(1)Graduate School of Information Science, Nagoya University, Japan; Department
of Ultrastructural Research, National Institute of Neuroscience, National Center 
of Neurology and Psychiatry (NCNP), Japan.
(2)Department of Ultrastructural Research, National Institute of Neuroscience,
National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry (NCNP), Japan.
(3)Department of Ultrastructural Research, National Institute of Neuroscience,
National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry (NCNP), Japan; Ichinohe Neural System
Group, Lab for Molecular Analysis of Higher Brain Functions RIKEN BSI, Japan.
Electronic address: nichino@ncnp.go.jp.
(4)Graduate School of Information Science, Nagoya University, Japan; Department
of Ultrastructural Research, National Institute of Neuroscience, National Center 
of Neurology and Psychiatry (NCNP), Japan. Electronic address:
kawai@is.nagoya-u.ac.jp.

Humans and various nonhuman primates respond negatively to inequity not in their 
favor (i.e., inequity aversion), when inequity between two individuals is
introduced. Common marmosets, a highly prosocial species, further discriminated
between human actors who reciprocated in social exchanges, and those who did not.
Conversely, marmoset models of autism, induced via prenatal exposure to valproic 
acid (VPA marmosets), did not discriminate. Interestingly, previous studies of
inequity aversion in marmosets have produced negative results, or were limited to
males. Recent studies suggest that inequity aversion is highly influenced by the 
tasks employed. Here we show inequity aversion in both male and female marmosets 
using a novel task which required a relatively long duration of response.
Marmosets were required to hold a spoon for 2 s to receive a reward. Marmosets
successfully performed the task when they observed an unfamiliar conspecific
partner obtaining the same reward (equity test). However, when they witnessed the
partner receiving a more attractive reward for equal effort (inequity test),
unexposed marmosets, which were not exposed to either valproic acid or saline
during the fetal period refused to respond. This inequity aversion was not
observed in unexposed marmosets when the partner was absent.　In contrast,
marmosets with fetal exposure to valproic acid (VPA marmosets) successfully
executed the task irrespective of their partners' reward conditions. As prenatal 
exposure to valproic acid is a well-known procedure to induce autism spectrum
disorder (ASD)-like behaviors in rodents, we propose that VPA marmosets failed to
show inequity aversion due to weak social motivation or interest towards others.

Copyright © 2018 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2018.01.013 
PMID: 29374522  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

