

742. Behav Brain Res. 2018 May 2;343:36-40. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2018.01.013. Epub 2018 
Jan 31.

Inequity aversion is observed in common marmosets but not in marmoset models of
autism induced by prenatal exposure to valproic acid.

Yasue M(1), Nakagami A(1), Nakagaki K(2), Ichinohe N(3), Kawai N(4).

Author information: 
(1)Graduate School of Information Science, Nagoya University, Japan; Department
of Ultrastructural Research, National Institute of Neuroscience, National Center 
of Neurology and Psychiatry (NCNP), Japan.
(2)Department of Ultrastructural Research, National Institute of Neuroscience,
National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry (NCNP), Japan.
(3)Department of Ultrastructural Research, National Institute of Neuroscience,
National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry (NCNP), Japan; Ichinohe Neural System
Group, Lab for Molecular Analysis of Higher Brain Functions RIKEN BSI, Japan.
Electronic address: nichino@ncnp.go.jp.
(4)Graduate School of Information Science, Nagoya University, Japan; Department
of Ultrastructural Research, National Institute of Neuroscience, National Center 
of Neurology and Psychiatry (NCNP), Japan. Electronic address:
kawai@is.nagoya-u.ac.jp.

Humans and various nonhuman primates respond negatively to inequity not in their 
favor (i.e., inequity aversion), when inequity between two individuals is
introduced. Common marmosets, a highly prosocial species, further discriminated
between human actors who reciprocated in social exchanges, and those who did not.
Conversely, marmoset models of autism, induced via prenatal exposure to valproic 
acid (VPA marmosets), did not discriminate. Interestingly, previous studies of
inequity aversion in marmosets have produced negative results, or were limited to
males. Recent studies suggest that inequity aversion is highly influenced by the 
tasks employed. Here we show inequity aversion in both male and female marmosets 
using a novel task which required a relatively long duration of response.
Marmosets were required to hold a spoon for 2 s to receive a reward. Marmosets
successfully performed the task when they observed an unfamiliar conspecific
partner obtaining the same reward (equity test). However, when they witnessed the
partner receiving a more attractive reward for equal effort (inequity test),
unexposed marmosets, which were not exposed to either valproic acid or saline
during the fetal period refused to respond. This inequity aversion was not
observed in unexposed marmosets when the partner was absent.　In contrast,
marmosets with fetal exposure to valproic acid (VPA marmosets) successfully
executed the task irrespective of their partners' reward conditions. As prenatal 
exposure to valproic acid is a well-known procedure to induce autism spectrum
disorder (ASD)-like behaviors in rodents, we propose that VPA marmosets failed to
show inequity aversion due to weak social motivation or interest towards others.

Copyright © 2018 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2018.01.013 
PMID: 29374522  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


743. Chronobiol Int. 2018 May;35(5):658-672. doi: 10.1080/07420528.2018.1425883. Epub 
2018 Jan 26.

Mechanisms of social synchrony between circadian activity rhythms in cohabiting
marmosets.

Bessa ZCM(1), Melo PR(1), Gonçalves BSB(1)(2), Azevedo CVM(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Laboratório de Cronobiologia, Departamento de Fisiologia , Universidade
Federal do Rio Grande do Norte , Natal/RN , Brazil.
(2)b Escola de Artes, Ciências e Humanidades , Universidade de São Paulo , São
Paulo/SP , Brazil.

In marmosets, social synchrony between circadian profiles of activity is stronger
in animals that cohabit in a family. The activity of three breeding pairs was
recorded by actiwatches to investigate the mechanisms involved in the synchrony
between the circadian activity profiles during cohabitation in marmoset
reproductive pairs. The dyads were submitted to LD 12:12 (21 days) and LL: 1)
cohabitation (24 days), 2) removal of the cage mate (20 days), 3) reintroduction 
of the mate into the cage of the 1st situation (30 days) and 4) removal of the
cage mate (7 days). Next, they were rejoined and maintained in LD 12:12
(11 days). In conditions involving cohabitation of pair, the general and maximum 
correlation indexes between circadian profiles were higher in cage mates compared
to animals of the same or different sex with which they maintain only acoustic
and olfactive contact. This strong synchrony between rhythms was accompanied by a
stable phase relationship at the activity onset and offset, with identical
circadian periods between mates. When the pairs were separated, there was a break
in stability in the phase relationships between activity profiles with different 
circadian periods and a greater phase angle difference between rhythms of cage
mates. During separation, two females and one male progressively anticipated the 
activity onset and offset in a phase similar to that in previous conditions,
expressing entrainment to the mate. During the first reintroduction, two pairs
exhibited signs of masking in rhythm. Although modulation in the rhythm of some
animals has been observed through acoustic cues from animals outside the colony, 
we suggest that cohabitation favors strong synchrony between the circadian
activity profiles of marmoset reproductive pairs involving synchronization by
entrainment and masking. Further studies in the absence of external social cues
are necessary to clarify the role of these mechanisms on social synchronization
in marmosets.

DOI: 10.1080/07420528.2018.1425883 
PMID: 29372816  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

