

745. J Neurophysiol. 2018 May 1;119(5):1636-1646. doi: 10.1152/jn.00866.2017. Epub
2018 Jan 24.

Methods for chair restraint and training of the common marmoset on oculomotor
tasks.

Johnston KD(1)(2), Barker K(3), Schaeffer L(4), Schaeffer D(4), Everling
S(1)(2)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, Schulich School of Medicine and
Dentistry, University of Western Ontario , London, Ontario , Canada.
(2)Brain and Mind Institute, University of Western Ontario , London, Ontario ,
Canada.
(3)Neuronitek, London, Ontario , Canada.
(4)Robarts Research Institute , London, Ontario , Canada.

The oculomotor system is the most thoroughly understood sensorimotor system in
the brain, due in large part to electrophysiological studies carried out in
macaque monkeys trained to perform oculomotor tasks. A disadvantage of the
macaque model is that many cortical oculomotor areas of interest lie within
sulci, making high-density array and laminar recordings impractical. Many
techniques of molecular biology developed in rodents, such as optogenetic
manipulation of neuronal subtypes, are also limited in this species. The common
marmoset ( Callithrix jacchus) possesses a smooth cortex, allowing easy access to
frontoparietal oculomotor areas, and may bridge the gap between systems
neuroscience in macaques and molecular techniques. Techniques for restraint,
training, and neural recording in these animals have been well developed in
auditory neuroscience. Those for oculomotor neuroscience, however, remain at a
relatively early stage. In this article we provide details of a custom-designed
restraint chair for marmosets, a combination head restraint/recording chamber
allowing access to cortical oculomotor areas and providing stability suitable for
eye movement and neural recordings, as well as a training protocol for oculomotor
tasks. We additionally report the results of a psychophysical study in marmosets 
trained to perform a saccade task using these methods, showing that, as in rhesus
and humans, marmosets exhibit a "gap effect," a decrease in reaction time when
the fixation stimulus is removed before the onset of a visual saccade target.
These results are the first evidence of this effect in marmosets and support the 
common marmoset model for neurophysiological investigations of oculomotor
control. NEW & NOTEWORTHY The ability to carry out neuronal recordings in
behaving primates has provided a wealth of information regarding the neural
circuits underlying the control of eye movements. Such studies require restraint 
of the animal within a primate chair, head fixation, methods of acclimating the
animals to this restraint, and the use of operant conditioning methods for
training on oculomotor tasks. In contrast to the macaque model, relatively few
studies have reported in detail methods for use in the common marmoset. In this
report we detail custom-designed equipment and methods by which we have used to
successfully train head-restrained marmosets to perform basic oculomotor tasks.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00866.2017 
PMID: 29364068  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


746. Biosci Trends. 2018 Mar 18;12(1):94-101. doi: 10.5582/bst.2017.01219. Epub 2018
Jan 15.

The response of common marmoset immunity against cedar pollen extract.

Kametani Y(1), Yamada Y(1), Takabayashi S(1)(2), Kato H(3), Ishiwata K(4),
Watanabe N(4), Sasaki E(2), Habu S(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Life Science, Tokai University School of Medicine.
(2)Central Institute for Experimental Animals.
(3)Hamamatsu University School of Medicine.
(4)Department of Tropical Medicine, Jikei University School of Medicine.
(5)Department of Immunology, Juntendo University School of Medicine.

The in vivo model of pollinosis has been established using rodents, but the model
cannot completely mimic human pollinosis. We used Callithrix jacchus, the common 
marmoset (CM), to establish a pollinosis animal model using intranasal weekly
administration of cedar pollen extract with cholera toxin adjuvant. Some of the
treated CMs exhibited the symptoms of snitching, excess nasal mucus and/or
sneezing, but the period was very short, and the symptoms disappeared after
several weeks. The CD4+CD25+ cell ratio in the peripheral blood increased in CMs 
quickly after the nasal administration of cedar pollen extract, but the timing
was not parallel with the symptoms. IL-10 mRNA was enhanced in the peripheral
blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs), suggesting CM-induced tolerance for cedar pollen
administration. Similarly, Foxp3 mRNA was also detected in the PBMC. Additive
sensitization of these CMs with Ascaris egg administration did not enhance
chronic inflammation of type 1 allergy to induce the symptoms. These results
suggest that the environmental immune cells develop transient allergic symptoms
and subsequent immune-tolerance in the intranasally sensitized CMs.

DOI: 10.5582/bst.2017.01219 
PMID: 29332927  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

