

750. J Comp Neurol. 2019 Feb 15;527(3):535-545. doi: 10.1002/cne.24390. Epub 2018 Jan 
25.

Projections of three subcortical visual centers to marmoset lateral geniculate
nucleus.

Zeater N(1)(2)(3), Buzás P(4), Dreher B(3), Grünert U(1)(2)(3), Martin
PR(1)(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Save Sight Institute and Department of Clinical Ophthalmology, The University 
of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.
(2)Australian Research Council Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain
Function, The University of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.
(3)School of Medical Sciences, The University of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales,
Australia.
(4)Institute of Physiology, Medical School, University of Pécs, Pécs, Hungary.

The dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus receives projections from visuotopically
organized subcortical nuclei, in addition to inputs from the retina, visual
cortices, and the thalamic reticular nucleus. Here, we study subcortical
projections to the geniculate from the superior colliculus (SC) and parabigeminal
nucleus (PBG) in the midbrain, and the nucleus of the optic tract (NOT) in the
pretectum of marmosets. Marmosets are New World diurnal foveate monkeys, and are 
an increasingly popular model for studying the primate visual system.
Furthermore, the koniocellular geniculate layers in marmosets, unlike those in
the geniculate of commonly studied diurnal Old World monkeys, are well
differentiated from the parvocellular and magnocellular layers. Thus, in the
present study, we have made small iontophoretic injections of the retrograde
tracer microruby, targeted to the koniocellular layers in the geniculates of four
marmosets. We found direct projections from the ipsilateral SC, PBG, and NOT to
the koniocellular geniculate layers. The distribution of retrogradely labeled
cells in the superficial, visual layers of SC is consistent with the idea that
projections from the SC to the koniocellular layers are visuotopically organized.
A little over 20 years ago, Vivien Casagrande () introduced the idea that
koniocellular geniculate layers (rather than the parvocellular and magnocellular 
layers) are principal targets of visuotopically organized subcortical nuclei. Our
results add to subsequent evidence assembled by Casagrande and others in favor of
this hypothesis.

© 2018 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.24390 
PMID: 29315552  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


751. Cereb Cortex. 2019 Feb 1;29(2):615-626. doi: 10.1093/cercor/bhx344.

Correlated Variability in the Neurons With the Strongest Tuning Improves
Direction Coding.

Zavitz E(1)(2)(3), Yu HH(1)(2)(3), Rosa MGP(1)(2)(3), Price NSC(1)(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Clayton, Victoria, Australia.
(2)Biomedicine Discovery Institute, Monash University, Clayton, Victoria,
Australia.
(3)Australian Research Council Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain
Function, Monash University Node, Clayton, VIC, Australia.

Sensory perception depends on neuronal populations creating an accurate
representation of the external world. The amount of information that a population
can represent depends on the tuning of individual neurons and the trial-by-trial 
variability shared among neurons. Although on average, pairwise spike-count
correlations between neurons are positive, the distribution is wide, and the
relationship between correlations and encoding is not straightforward. Here, we
examine how single-neuron and population-level factors impact the efficacy of the
neural code. We recorded responses to moving visual stimuli from motion-sensitive
neurons in the middle temporal area of anesthetized marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus) and trained decoders to assess how correlated and uncorrelated
populations encoded stimulus motion direction. We found that the most responsive,
direction-selective, and least variable neurons are the most relied-upon neurons 
in an uncorrelated population. In correlated populations, the same neurons do the
most to shape the shared variability across the population in a way that
facilitates decoding, and decoding is improved by the presence of temporally
stable correlations. This suggests that the least variable neurons with the
strongest stimulus representations enhance the population code by providing a
strong signal and shaping correlations in variability orthogonally to the locus
defined by the mean response.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhx344 
PMID: 29300838  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

