

755. J Comp Neurol. 2019 Feb 15;527(3):558-576. doi: 10.1002/cne.24387. Epub 2018 Jan 
13.

Unravelling the subcortical and retinal circuitry of the primate inferior
pulvinar.

Kwan WC(1), Mundinano IC(1), de Souza MJ(1), Lee SCS(2)(3), Martin PR(2)(3)(4),
Grünert U(2)(3)(4), Bourne JA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Australian Regenerative Medicine Institute, Monash University, Clayton,
Victoria, Australia.
(2)Save Sight Institute and Department of Clinical Ophthalmology, The University 
of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.
(3)Australian Research Council Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain
Function, Sydney Node, The University of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales,
Australia.
(4)School of Medical Sciences, The University of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales,
Australia.

The primate visual brain possesses a myriad of pathways, whereby visual
information originating at the retina is transmitted to multiple subcortical
areas in parallel, before being relayed onto the visual cortex. The dominant
retinogeniculostriate pathway has been an area of extensive study, and Vivien
Casagrande's work in examining the once overlooked koniocellular pathway of the
lateral geniculate nucleus has generated interest in how alternate subcortical
pathways can contribute to visual perception. Another subcortical visual relay
center is the inferior pulvinar (PI), which has four subdivisions and numerous
connections with other subcortical and cortical areas and is directly recipient
of retinal afferents. The complexity of subcortical connections associated with
the PI subdivisions has led to differing results from various groups. A
particular challenge in determining the exact connectivity pattern has been in
accurately targeting the subdivisions of the PI with neural tracers. Therefore,
in the present study, we used a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)-guided
stereotaxic injection system to inject bidirectional tracers in the separate
subdivisions of the PI, the superior layers of the superior colliculus, the
retina, and the lateral geniculate nucleus. Our results have determined for the
first time that the medial inferior pulvinar (PIm) is innervated by widefield
retinal ganglion cells (RGCs), and this pathway is not a collateral branch of the
geniculate and collicular projecting RGCs. Furthermore, our tracing data shows no
evidence of collicular terminations in the PIm, which are confined to the
centromedial and posterior PI.

© 2018 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.24387 
PMID: 29292493  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


756. NMR Biomed. 2018 Mar;31(3). doi: 10.1002/nbm.3864. Epub 2017 Dec 29.

Investigation of the BOLD and CBV fMRI responses to somatosensory stimulation in 
awake marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Hirano Y(1), Yen CC(1), Liu JV(1), Mackel JB(1), Merkle H(1), Nascimento GC(1),
Stefanovic B(1), Silva AC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Cerebral Microcirculation Section, Laboratory of Functional and Molecular
Imaging, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, USA.

Understanding the spatiotemporal features of the hemodynamic response function
(HRF) to brain stimulation is essential for the correct application of
neuroimaging methods to study brain function. Here, we investigated the
spatiotemporal evolution of the blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) and cerebral 
blood volume (CBV) HRF in conscious, awake marmosets (Callithrix jacchus), a New 
World non-human primate with a lissencephalic brain and with growing use in
biomedical research. The marmosets were acclimatized to head fixation and placed 
in a 7-T magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scanner. Somatosensory stimulation
(333-μs pulses; amplitude, 2 mA; 64 Hz) was delivered bilaterally via pairs of
contact electrodes. A block design paradigm was used in which the stimulus
duration increased in pseudo-random order from a single pulse up to 256
electrical pulses (4 s). For CBV measurements, 30 mg/kg of ultrasmall
superparamagnetic ironoxide particles (USPIO) injected intravenously, were used. 
Robust BOLD and CBV HRFs were obtained in the primary somatosensory cortex (S1), 
secondary somatosensory cortex (S2) and caudate at all stimulus conditions. In
particular, BOLD and CBV responses to a single 333-μs-long stimulus were reliably
measured, and the CBV HRF presented shorter onset time and time to peak than the 
BOLD HRF. Both the size of the regions of activation and the peak amplitude of
the HRFs grew quickly with increasing stimulus duration, and saturated for
stimulus durations greater than 1 s. Onset times in S1 and S2 were faster than in
caudate. Finally, the fine spatiotemporal features of the HRF in awake marmosets 
were similar to those obtained in humans, indicating that the continued
refinement of awake non-human primate models is essential to maximize the
applicability of animal functional MRI studies to the investigation of human
brain function.

Published 2017. This article is a U.S. Government work and is in the public
domain in the USA.

DOI: 10.1002/nbm.3864 
PMCID: PMC5841465
PMID: 29285809  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

