

761. Physiol Behav. 2018 Mar 1;185:14-22. doi: 10.1016/j.physbeh.2017.12.018. Epub
2017 Dec 15.

Measuring physiological stress in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus):
Validation of a salivary cortisol collection and assay technique.

Ash H(1), Smith TE(2), Knight S(3), Buchanan-Smith HM(4).

Author information: 
(1)Behaviour and Evolution Research Group, Scottish Primate Research Group,
Psychology, Faculty of Natural Sciences, University of Stirling, Scotland, UK.
Electronic address: hmash@wisc.edu.
(2)Department of Biology, University of Chester, Parkgate Road, Chester, England,
UK.
(3)Biomedical Sciences, Defence Science and Technology Laboratory (Dstl), Porton 
Down, Salisbury, Wiltshire, UK.
(4)Behaviour and Evolution Research Group, Scottish Primate Research Group,
Psychology, Faculty of Natural Sciences, University of Stirling, Scotland, UK.

Cortisol levels are often used as a physiological measure of the stress response 
in captive primates, with non-invasive measures of this being an important step
in welfare assessment. We report a method of collecting saliva samples
voluntarily from unrestrained captive common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus), and 
validate an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) technique previously unused
in this species. Saliva samples were collected from marmosets housed in pairs in 
a UK laboratory. The assay showed parallelism, precision, accuracy and
sensitivity, meeting the criteria typically used to investigate the effectiveness
of new analytical techniques. Use of Salimetrics® Oral Swabs considerably
increased the amount of cortisol recovered in comparison with previous studies
using cotton buds. However, while use of banana on the swabs can encourage
chewing, it may influence results. Although increases in cortisol levels have
traditionally been interpreted as an indicator of stress in primates, there are
many factors that affect the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis, with some
studies showing decreases in cortisol levels post-stressor. Following a likely
stressful event (capture for weighing), we also found cortisol levels
significantly decreased, possibly due to social buffering or 'blunting' of the
HPA axis. Order of weighing also had an effect. The method therefore provided an 
effective non-invasive means of assessing acute changes in cortisol level that
may be more useful than previous methods, improving our ability to study
physiological aspects of welfare in primates. We discuss methodological
considerations, as well as implications of using cortisol as a measure of stress.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.physbeh.2017.12.018 
PMID: 29248632  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


762. Reprod Toxicol. 2018 Jan;75:86-95. doi: 10.1016/j.reprotox.2017.12.004. Epub 2017
Dec 13.

A retrospective analysis of adverse effects of an in vivo fluoroquinolone
antibiotic enrofloxacin treatment on oocyte quality in the common marmoset.

Tkachenko OY(1), Scheerer-Bernhard JU(2), Delimitreva S(3), Wedi E(4), Valle
RR(5), Heistermann M(6), Nayudu PL(7).

Author information: 
(1)Reproductive Biomedicine Group, Reproductive Biology Unit, German Primate
Centre, Leibniz Institute for Primate Research, Kellnerweg 4, Goettingen, 37077
Germany; Division of Reproductive and Developmental Sciences, Oregon National
Primate Research Center, Oregon Health & Science University, Beaverton, OR,
97006, USA. Electronic address: tkacheno@ohsu.edu.
(2)Reproductive Biomedicine Group, Reproductive Biology Unit, German Primate
Centre, Leibniz Institute for Primate Research, Kellnerweg 4, Goettingen, 37077
Germany; Department of Internal Medicine, Roskilde Hospital, Roskilde, 2100,
Denmark.
(3)Reproductive Biomedicine Group, Reproductive Biology Unit, German Primate
Centre, Leibniz Institute for Primate Research, Kellnerweg 4, Goettingen, 37077
Germany; Department of Biology, Medical University of Sofia, 1 St. Georgi
Sofiyski Street, Sofia, 1431, Bulgaria.
(4)Reproductive Biomedicine Group, Reproductive Biology Unit, German Primate
Centre, Leibniz Institute for Primate Research, Kellnerweg 4, Goettingen, 37077
Germany; Gastroenterologie und GI Onkologie, Universitätsmedizin Göttingen,
Robert-Koch-Straße 40, 37073 Göttingen, Germany.
(5)Reproductive Biomedicine Group, Reproductive Biology Unit, German Primate
Centre, Leibniz Institute for Primate Research, Kellnerweg 4, Goettingen, 37077
Germany; Instituto de Ciências da Saúde, Universidade Paulista, Institute of
Health Science, Paulista University, Rua Dr. Bacelar, 1212, São Paulo, SP,
Brazil.
(6)Endocrinology Laboratory, German Primate Centre, Leibniz Institute for Primate
Research, Göttingen, Germany.
(7)Reproductive Biomedicine Group, Reproductive Biology Unit, German Primate
Centre, Leibniz Institute for Primate Research, Kellnerweg 4, Goettingen, 37077
Germany.

Here we report a retrospective analysis of negative effects of routine
enrofloxacin treatment of recurrent diarrhea on the ovary and the developing
oocytes of the common marmoset, a small New World primate. The most deleterious
effect on oocytes was observed about two months post treatment suggesting that
the enrofloxacin effect is on early growing follicles. Manifestations of toxicity
included decreased numbers of growing follicles and recovered culturable oocytes,
as well as signs of early atresia of granulosa cells. In addition, increased
amounts of holed stroma after treatment strongly suggested increased death of the
early growing follicles. Of the oocytes judged to be of adequate quality for
culture, maturation rates were not affected but fertilization of in vitro matured
MII oocytes and subsequent cleavage rates were severely reduced in the
enrofloxacin treated animals. Further, the arrested oocytes, which failed to
mature or fertilize, showed obvious meiotic spindle abnormalities.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.reprotox.2017.12.004 
PMID: 29247838  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

