

775. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 2018 Mar;120:170-182. doi: 10.1016/j.ympev.2017.11.010. Epub
2017 Nov 23.

How many pygmy marmoset (Cebuella Gray, 1870) species are there? A taxonomic
re-appraisal based on new molecular evidence.

Boubli JP(1), da Silva MNF(2), Rylands AB(3), Nash SD(3), Bertuol F(4), Nunes
M(4), Mittermeier RA(3), Byrne H(5), Silva FE(6), Röhe F(4), Sampaio I(7),
Schneider H(7), Farias IP(4), Hrbek T(8).

Author information: 
(1)School of Environment and Life Sciences, University of Salford, Salford, UK;
Instituto Nacional de Pesquisas da Amazônia, Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil. Electronic
address: j.p.boubli@salford.ac.uk.
(2)Instituto Nacional de Pesquisas da Amazônia, Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil.
(3)Conservation International, Arlington, VA, USA.
(4)Universidade Federal do Amazonas, Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil.
(5)School of Environment and Life Sciences, University of Salford, Salford, UK.
(6)School of Environment and Life Sciences, University of Salford, Salford, UK;
Instituto de Desenvolvimento Sustentável Mamirauá, Tefé, Amazonas, Brazil.
(7)Universidade Federal do Pará, Belém, Pará, Brazil.
(8)Universidade Federal do Amazonas, Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil. Electronic
address: hrbek@evoamazon.net.

The pygmy marmoset, Cebuella pygmaea, the smallest of the New World monkeys, has 
one of the largest geographical distributions of the Amazonian primates. Two
forms have been recognized: Cebuella pygmaea pygmaea (Spix, 1823), and C. p.
niveiventris Lönnberg, 1940. In this study, we investigated if the separation of 
pygmy marmosets into these two clades can be corroborated by molecular data. We
also examine and compare coloration of the pelage in light of the new molecular
results. We analyzed the mtDNA cytochrome b gene and, for the first time for any 
Neotropical primate, we used a reduced representation genome sequencing approach 
(ddRADseq) to obtain data for recently collected, geographically representative
samples from the Rio Japurá, a northern tributary of the Rio Solimões and from
the Javarí, Jutaí, Juruá, Madeira and Purus river basins, all tributaries south
of the Solimões. We estimated phylogenies and diversification times under both
maximum likelihood and Bayesian inference criteria. Our analysis showed two
highly supported clades, with intraclade divergences much smaller than interclade
divergences, indicating two species of Cebuella: one from the Rio Japurá and one 
to the south of Solimões. The interpretation of our results in light of the
current taxonomy is not trivial however. Lönnberg stated that the type of Spix's 
pygmy marmoset (type locality 'near Tabatinga') was obtained from the south of
the Solimões, and his description of the distinct niveiventris from Lago Ipixuna,
south of the Solimões and several hundred kilometres east of Tabatinga, was based
on a comparison with specimens that he determined as typical pygmaea that were
from the upper Rio Juruá (south of the Solimões). As such it remains uncertain
whether the name pygmaea should be applicable to the pygmy marmosets north of the
Rio Solimões (Tabatinga type locality) or south (near Tabatinga but across the
Solimões). Finally, our analysis of pelage coloration revealed three phenotypic
forms: (1) south of the Rio Solimoes, (2) Eirunepé-Acre, upper Juruá basin; and
(3) Japurá. More samples from both sides of Solimões in the region of Tabatinga
will be necessary to ascertain the exact type locality for Spix's pygmaea and to 
resolve the current uncertainties surrounding pygmy marmoset taxonomy.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ympev.2017.11.010 
PMID: 29175546  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


776. Indian J Med Res. 2017 Jul;146(1):126-137. doi: 10.4103/ijmr.IJMR_927_15.

Bisphenol A-induced ultrastructural changes in the testes of common marmoset.

Vijaykumar T(1), Singh D(1), Vanage GR(1), Dhumal RV(1), Dighe VD(1).

Author information: 
(1)National Centre for Preclinical Reproductive & Genetic Toxicology,
ICMR-National Institute for Research in Reproductive Health, Mumbai, India.

BACKGROUND & OBJECTIVES: Bisphenol A (BPA) is an endocrine disruptor that is
widely used in the manufacture of polycarbonate plastics, epoxy resins and dental
sealants. It is known to have adverse effects on spermatogenesis in rodents. This
study was aimed to evaluate the effects of BPA in adult common marmoset owing to 
its similarities with human spermatogenesis.
METHODS: Sixteen marmosets were divided into four groups (n=4 per group) and
given oral doses of BPA (2.5, 12.5 and 25 μg/kg BW/day) for 70 days to cover two 
spermatogenic cycles, and the control group received only vehicle (honey). Testes
were processed for histological and transmission electron microscopy studies.
RESULTS: Histology of the testis showed sloughing of germ cells into the lumen,
increase in interstitial space and vacuolation of Sertoli cell cytoplasm.
Ultrastructural analysis of the testis revealed several degenerative effects on
the basement membrane, Sertoli cells, Leydig cells and other developing germ
cells in the 12.5 and 25 μg/kg BW/day groups as compared to control.
INTERPRETATION & CONCLUSIONS: The observed ultrastructural changes caused by BPA 
in testicular morphology might be indicative of a perturbed sperm production.
Considering the genetic and spermatogenic similarities of common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus) and humans, the study findings are of significance. Further 
studies are, however, needed to elucidate the mechanism of action.

DOI: 10.4103/ijmr.IJMR_927_15 
PMCID: PMC5719597
PMID: 29168469  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

