

776. Indian J Med Res. 2017 Jul;146(1):126-137. doi: 10.4103/ijmr.IJMR_927_15.

Bisphenol A-induced ultrastructural changes in the testes of common marmoset.

Vijaykumar T(1), Singh D(1), Vanage GR(1), Dhumal RV(1), Dighe VD(1).

Author information: 
(1)National Centre for Preclinical Reproductive & Genetic Toxicology,
ICMR-National Institute for Research in Reproductive Health, Mumbai, India.

BACKGROUND & OBJECTIVES: Bisphenol A (BPA) is an endocrine disruptor that is
widely used in the manufacture of polycarbonate plastics, epoxy resins and dental
sealants. It is known to have adverse effects on spermatogenesis in rodents. This
study was aimed to evaluate the effects of BPA in adult common marmoset owing to 
its similarities with human spermatogenesis.
METHODS: Sixteen marmosets were divided into four groups (n=4 per group) and
given oral doses of BPA (2.5, 12.5 and 25 μg/kg BW/day) for 70 days to cover two 
spermatogenic cycles, and the control group received only vehicle (honey). Testes
were processed for histological and transmission electron microscopy studies.
RESULTS: Histology of the testis showed sloughing of germ cells into the lumen,
increase in interstitial space and vacuolation of Sertoli cell cytoplasm.
Ultrastructural analysis of the testis revealed several degenerative effects on
the basement membrane, Sertoli cells, Leydig cells and other developing germ
cells in the 12.5 and 25 μg/kg BW/day groups as compared to control.
INTERPRETATION & CONCLUSIONS: The observed ultrastructural changes caused by BPA 
in testicular morphology might be indicative of a perturbed sperm production.
Considering the genetic and spermatogenic similarities of common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus) and humans, the study findings are of significance. Further 
studies are, however, needed to elucidate the mechanism of action.

DOI: 10.4103/ijmr.IJMR_927_15 
PMCID: PMC5719597
PMID: 29168469  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


777. J Gen Virol. 2017 Dec;98(12):2955-2967. doi: 10.1099/jgv.0.000913. Epub 2017 Nov 
21.

Marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) as a non-human primate model for evaluation of
candidate dengue vaccines: induction and maintenance of specific protective
immunity against challenges with clinical isolates.

Moi ML(1), Ami Y(2), Muhammad Azami NA(3), Shirai K(4), Yoksan S(5), Suzaki Y(2),
Kitaura K(4), Lim CK(3), Saijo M(3), Suzuki R(4), Takasaki T(6), Kurane I(7).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Tropical Medicine, Nagasaki University, Nagasaki, Japan.
(2)Division of Experimental Animal Research, National Institute of Infectious
Diseases, Musashimurayama, Tokyo, Japan.
(3)Department of Virology I, National Institute of Infectious Diseases, Tokyo,
Japan.
(4)Department of Rheumatology and Clinical Immunology, Clinical Research Center
for Allergy and Rheumatology, Sagamihara National Hospital, National Hospital
Organization, Kanagawa, Japan.
(5)Institute of Molecular Biosciences, Mahidol University, Salaya, Nakhon Pathom,
Thailand.
(6)Kanagawa Prefectural Institute of Public Health, Kanagawa, Japan.
(7)National Institute of Infectious Diseases, Tokyo, Japan.

Dengue virus (DENV) is one of the major infectious diseases in tropical regions
and approximately half of the world population is at risk of infection. Vaccines 
would offer an effective control measure against this disease. We previously
reported on the utility of marmosets as an animal model for studying primary and 
secondary dengue infections. Infected marmosets consistently develop viraemia and
antibody kinetics that reflect those of patients with dengue. Thus, it is
important to determine the utility of marmosets as an animal model for
demonstrating vaccine efficacy. In this study, marmosets were inoculated with
candidate vaccine and parent strains and challenged with a clinical DENV strain. 
The viraemia and antibody kinetics in these marmosets were determined. Marmosets 
consistently develop lower viraemia with an attenuated vaccine strain. During
secondary challenge, the IgM response was delayed, whereas the IgG levels rose
rapidly, indicating a secondary antibody response. The neutralizing activities
against the homotypic serotype were high; all marmosets were protected against
viraemia following secondary inoculation. The viraemia markers and antibody
responses were consistent with those of human DENV infection and vaccinees. These
results demonstrate the utility of marmosets as an animal model for the study of 
vaccine efficacy.

DOI: 10.1099/jgv.0.000913 
PMID: 29160199  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

