

781. PLoS One. 2017 Nov 14;12(11):e0188013. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0188013.
eCollection 2017.

Severe oxidative stress in an acute inflammatory demyelinating model in the
rhesus monkey.

Dunham J(1)(2), van de Vis R(1), Bauer J(3), Wubben J(1), van Driel N(1), Laman
JD(2), 't Hart BA(1)(2), Kap YS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Rijswijk, The
Netherlands.
(2)University Groningen, University Medical Center, Department of Neuroscience,
Groningen, The Netherlands.
(3)Department Neuroimmunology, Brain Research Institute, Medical University,
Vienna, Austria.

Oxidative stress is increasingly implicated as a co-factor of tissue injury in
inflammatory/demyelinating disorders of the central nervous system (CNS), such as
multiple sclerosis (MS). While rodent experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis
(EAE) models diverge from human demyelinating disorders with respect to limited
oxidative injury, we observed that in a non-human primate (NHP) model for MS,
namely EAE in the common marmoset, key pathological features of the disease were 
recapitulated, including oxidative tissue injury. Here, we investigated the
presence of oxidative injury in another NHP EAE model, i.e. in rhesus macaques,
which yields an acute demyelinating disease, which may more closely resemble
acute disseminated encephalomyelitis (ADEM) than MS. Rhesus monkey EAE diverges
from marmoset EAE by abundant neutrophil recruitment into the CNS and destructive
injury to white matter. This difference prompted us to investigate to which
extent the oxidative pathway features elicited in MS and marmoset EAE are
reflected in the acute rhesus monkey EAE model. The rhesus EAE brain was
characterized by widespread demyelination and active lesions containing numerous 
phagocytic cells and to a lesser extent T cells. We observed induction of the
oxidative stress pathway, including injury, with a predilection of p22phox
expression in neutrophils and macrophages/microglia. In addition, changes in iron
were observed. These results indicate that pathogenic mechanisms in the rhesus
EAE model may differ from the marmoset EAE and MS brain due to the neutrophil
involvement, but may in the end lead to similar induction of oxidative stress and
injury.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0188013 
PMCID: PMC5685592
PMID: 29136024  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


782. Vision Res. 2018 Oct;151:41-52. doi: 10.1016/j.visres.2017.09.002. Epub 2017 Nov 
22.

Chromatic summation and receptive field properties of blue-on and blue-off cells 
in marmoset lateral geniculate nucleus.

Eiber CD(1), Pietersen ANJ(2), Zeater N(3), Solomon SG(4), Martin PR(5).

Author information: 
(1)Save Sight Institute, University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia; School of
Medical Sciences, University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia; Australian Research
Council Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain Function, University of
Sydney, Australia. Electronic address: calvin.eiber@sydney.edu.au.
(2)Save Sight Institute, University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia; School of
Medical Sciences, University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia; Australian Research
Council Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain Function, University of
Sydney, Australia. Electronic address: alexander.pietersen@sydney.edu.au.
(3)Save Sight Institute, University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia; School of
Medical Sciences, University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia; Australian Research
Council Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain Function, University of
Sydney, Australia. Electronic address: natalie.zeater@sydney.edu.au.
(4)School of Medical Sciences, University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia;
Department of Experimental Psychology, University College London, United Kingdom.
Electronic address: samuels@physiol.usyd.edu.au.
(5)Save Sight Institute, University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia; School of
Medical Sciences, University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia; Australian Research
Council Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain Function, University of
Sydney, Australia. Electronic address: prmartin@physiol.usyd.edu.au.

The "blue-on" and "blue-off" receptive fields in retina and dorsal lateral
geniculate nucleus (LGN) of diurnal primates combine signals from
short-wavelength sensitive (S) cone photoreceptors with signals from medium/long 
wavelength sensitive (ML) photoreceptors. Three questions about this combination 
remain unresolved. Firstly, is the combination of S and ML signals in these cells
linear or non-linear? Secondly, how does the timing of S and ML inputs to these
cells influence their responses? Thirdly, is there spatial antagonism within S
and ML subunits of the receptive field of these cells? We measured contrast
sensitivity and spatial frequency tuning for four types of drifting sine
gratings: S cone isolating, ML cone isolating, achromatic (S + ML), and
counterphase chromatic (S - ML), in extracellular recordings from LGN of marmoset
monkeys. We found that responses to stimuli which modulate both S and ML cones
are well predicted by a linear sum of S and ML signals, followed by a saturating 
contrast-response relation. Differences in sensitivity and timing (i.e. vector
combination) between S and ML inputs are needed to explain the amplitude and
phase of responses to achromatic (S + ML) and counterphase chromatic (S - ML)
stimuli. Best-fit spatial receptive fields for S and/or ML subunits in most cells
(>80%) required antagonistic surrounds, usually in the S subunit. The surrounds
were however generally weak and had little influence on spatial tuning. The
sensitivity and size of S and ML subunits were correlated on a cell-by-cell
basis, adding to evidence that blue-on and blue-off receptive fields are
specialised to signal chromatic but not spatial contrast.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.visres.2017.09.002 
PMID: 29129732  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

