

791. Prog Brain Res. 2017;235:155-176. doi: 10.1016/bs.pbr.2017.07.005. Epub 2017 Sep 
7.

Differential modulatory effects of cocaine on marmoset monkey recognition memory.

Melamed JL(1), de Jesus FM(2), Aquino J(1), Vannuchi CRS(1), Duarte RBM(1), Maior
RS(2), Tomaz C(3), Barros M(4).

Author information: 
(1)School of Health Sciences, Department of Physiological Sciences, University of
Brasilia, Brasilia, Brazil.
(2)Primate Center and Department of Physiological Sciences, Institute of Biology,
University of Brasilia, Brasilia, Brazil.
(3)Primate Center and Department of Physiological Sciences, Institute of Biology,
University of Brasilia, Brasilia, Brazil; Neuroscience Research Group, University
CEUMA, São Luís, Brazil.
(4)School of Health Sciences, Department of Physiological Sciences, University of
Brasilia, Brasilia, Brazil. Electronic address: mbarros@unb.br.

Acute and repeated exposure to cocaine alters the cognitive performance of humans
and animals. How each administration schedule affects the same memory task has
yet to be properly established in nonhuman primates. Therefore, we assessed the
performance of marmoset monkeys in a spontaneous object-location (SOL)
recognition memory task after acute and repeated exposure to cocaine (COC;
5mg/kg, ip). Two identical neutral stimuli were explored on the 10-min sample
trial, after which preferential exploration of the displaced vs the stationary
object was analyzed on the 10-min test trial. For the acute treatment, cocaine
was given immediately after the sample presentation, and spatial recognition was 
then tested after a 24-h interval. For the repeated exposure schedule, daily
cocaine injections were given on 7 consecutive days. After a 7-day drug-free
period, the SOL task was carried out with a 10-min intertrial interval. When
given acutely postsample, COC improved the marmosets' recognition memory, whereas
it had a detrimental effect after the repeated exposure. Thus, depending on the
administration schedule, COC exerted opposing effects on the marmosets' ability
to recognize spatial changes. This agrees with recent studies in rodents and the 
recognition impairment seen in human addicts. Further studies related to the
effects of cocaine's acute×prior drug history on the same cognitive domain are
warranted.

© 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/bs.pbr.2017.07.005 
PMID: 29054287  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


792. Biol Reprod. 2017 Nov 1;97(5):772-780. doi: 10.1093/biolre/iox129.

Generation of transgenic marmosets using a tetracyclin-inducible transgene
expression system as a neurodegenerative disease model.

Tomioka I(1)(2), Nogami N(1), Nakatani T(1), Owari K(1), Fujita N(1), Motohashi
H(1), Takayama O(1), Takae K(2), Nagai Y(3)(4), Seki K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurophysiology, National Institute of Neuroscience, National
Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, Tokyo, Japan.
(2)Institute for Biomedical Science, Shinshu University, Nagano, Japan.
(3)Department of Degenerative Neurological Diseases, National Institute of
Neuroscience, National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, Tokyo, Japan.
(4)Department of Neurotherapeutics, Osaka University Graduate School of Medicine,
Osaka, Japan.

Controllable transgene expression systems are indispensable tools for the
production of animal models of disease to investigate protein functions at
defined periods. However, in nonhuman primates that share genetic, physiological,
and morphological similarities with humans, genetic modification techniques have 
not been well established; therefore, the establishment of novel transgenic
models with controllable transgene expression systems will be valuable tools to
understand pathological mechanism of human disease. In the present study, we
successfully generated transgenic marmosets using a tetracyclin-inducible
transgene expression (tet-on) system as a neurodegenerative disease model. The
mutant human ataxin 3 gene controlled by the tet-on system was introduced into
marmoset embryos via lentiviral transduction, and 34 transgene-introduced embryos
were transferred into the uteri of surrogate mothers. Seven live offspring
(TET1-7) were obtained, of which four were transgenic. Fibroblasts from TET1 and 
3 revealed that inducible transgene expression had occurred after treatment with 
10 μg/mL of doxycycline, while treatment with doxycycline via drinking water
resulted in 1.7- to 1.8-fold inducible transgene expression compared with before 
treatment. One transgenic second-generation offspring (TET3-3) was obtained from 
TET3, and doxycycline-inducible transgene expression in its fibroblasts showed
that TET3-3 maintained a high transgene expression level that matched its parent.
In conclusion, we established a novel transgenic marmoset line carrying the
mutant human ataxin 3 gene controlled by the tet-on system. The development of
nonhuman primate models with controllable transgene expression systems will be
useful for the identification of disease biomarkers and evaluation of the
efficacy and metabolic profiles of therapeutic candidates.

© The Authors 2017. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Society for
the Study of Reproduction. All rights reserved. For permissions, please e-mail:
journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/biolre/iox129 
PMID: 29045563  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

