

797. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 2018 Jan;118:156-171. doi: 10.1016/j.ympev.2017.10.002. Epub
2017 Oct 6.

Phenotypic evolution in marmoset and tamarin monkeys (Cebidae, Callitrichinae)
and a revised genus-level classification.

Garbino GST(1), Martins-Junior AMG(2).

Author information: 
(1)PPG-Zoologia, Departamento de Zoologia, Instituto de Ciências Biológicas,
Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, Brazil. Electronic address:
antonio_mgmartins@hotmail.com.
(2)Laboratório de Genética e Evolução, Instituto Federal do Pará, Campus de
Tucuruí, Brazil; Centro de Genômica e Biologia de Sistemas, Universidade Federal 
do Pará, Belém, Brazil.

Marmosets and tamarins (Cebidae, Callitrichinae) constitute the most species-rich
subfamily of New World monkeys and one of the most diverse phenotypically.
Despite the profusion of molecular phylogenies of the group, the evolution of
phenotypic characters under the rapidly-emerging consensual phylogeny of the
subfamily has been little studied, resulting in taxonomic proposals that have
limited support from other datasets. We examined the evolution of 18 phenotypic
traits (5 continuous and 13 discrete), including pelage, skull, dentition,
postcrania, life-history and vocalization variables in a robust molecular
phylogeny of marmoset and tamarin monkeys, quantifying their phylogenetic signal 
and correlations among some of the traits. At the family level, our resulting
topology supports owl monkeys (Aotinae) as sister group of Callitrichinae. The
topology of the callitrichine tree was congruent with previous studies except for
the position of the midas group of Saguinus tamarins, which placement as sister
of the bicolor group did not receive significant statistical support in both
Maximum Parsimony and Bayesian Inference analyses. Our results showed that the
highest value of phylogenetic signal among continuous traits was displayed by the
long call character and the lowest was exhibited in the home range, intermediate 
values were found in characters related to osteology and skull size. Among
discrete traits, pelage and osteology had similar phylogenetic signal. Based on
genetic, osteological, pelage and vocalization data, we present an updated
genus-level taxonomy of Callitrichinae, which recognizes six genera in the
subfamily: Callimico, Callithrix, Cebuella, Mico, Leontopithecus and Saguinus. To
reflect their phenotypic distinctiveness and to avoid the use of the informal
"species group", we subdivided Saguinus in the subgenera Leontocebus, Saguinus
and Tamarinus (revalidated here).

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ympev.2017.10.002 
PMID: 28989098  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


798. Genome Biol Evol. 2017 Oct 1;9(10):2615-2625. doi: 10.1093/gbe/evx194.

Gene Regulatory Enhancers with Evolutionarily Conserved Activity Are More
Pleiotropic than Those with Species-Specific Activity.

Fish A(1)(2), Chen L(2), Capra JA(1)(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Vanderbilt Genetics Institute, Vanderbilt University.
(2)Department of Biological Sciences, Vanderbilt Genetics Institute, Vanderbilt
University.
(3)Departments of Biomedical Informatics and Computer Science, Center for
Structural Biology, Vanderbilt University.

Studies of regulatory activity and gene expression have revealed an intriguing
dichotomy: There is substantial turnover in the regulatory activity of
orthologous sequences between species; however, the expression level of
orthologous genes is largely conserved. Understanding how distal regulatory
elements, for example, enhancers, evolve and function is critical, as alterations
in gene expression levels can drive the development of both complex disease and
functional divergence between species. In this study, we investigated
determinants of the conservation of regulatory enhancer activity for orthologous 
sequences across mammalian evolution. Using liver enhancers identified from
genome-wide histone modification profiles in ten diverse mammalian species, we
compared orthologous sequences that exhibited regulatory activity in all species 
(conserved-activity enhancers) to shared sequences active only in a single
species (species-specific-activity enhancers). Conserved-activity enhancers have 
greater regulatory potential than species-specific-activity enhancers, as
quantified by both the density and diversity of transcription factor binding
motifs. Consistent with their greater regulatory potential, conserved-activity
enhancers have greater regulatory activity in humans than
species-specific-activity enhancers: They are active across more cellular
contexts, and they regulate more genes than species-specific-activity enhancers. 
Furthermore, the genes regulated by conserved-activity enhancers are expressed in
more tissues and are less tolerant of loss-of-function mutations than those
targeted by species-specific-activity enhancers. These consistent results across 
various stages of gene regulation demonstrate that conserved-activity enhancers
are more pleiotropic than their species-specific-activity counterparts. This
suggests that pleiotropy is associated with the conservation of regulatory across
mammalian evolution.

© The Author 2017. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society 
for Molecular Biology and Evolution.

DOI: 10.1093/gbe/evx194 
PMCID: PMC5737616
PMID: 28985297  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

