

822. Primate Biol. 2017 Aug 18;4(2):153-162. doi: 10.5194/pb-4-153-2017. eCollection
2017.

Overcoming barriers to reprogramming and differentiation in nonhuman primate
induced pluripotent stem cells.

Hemmi JJ(1), Mishra A(1), Hornsby PJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Barshop Institute and Department of Physiology, University of Texas Health
Science Center San Antonio, San Antonio, TX 78245, USA.

Induced pluripotent stem cells (iPS cells) generated by cellular reprogramming
from nonhuman primates (NHPs) are of great significance for regenerative medicine
and for comparative biology. Autologously derived stem cells would theoretically 
avoid any risk of rejection due to host-donor mismatch and may bypass the need
for immune suppression post-transplant. In order for these possibilities to be
realized, reprogramming methodologies that were initially developed mainly for
human cells must be translated to NHPs. NHP studies have typically used
pluripotent cells generated from young animals and thus risk overlooking
complications that may arise from generating iPS cells from donors of other ages.
When reprogramming is extended to a wide range of NHP species, available donors
may be middle- or old-aged. Here we have pursued these questions by generating
iPS cells from donors across the life span of the common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus) and then subjecting them to a directed neural differentiation protocol. 
The differentiation potential of different clonal cell lines was assessed using
the quantitative polymerase chain reaction. The results show that cells derived
from older donors often showed less neural marker induction. These deficits were 
rescued by a 24 h pretreatment of the cells with 0.5 % dimethyl sulfoxide.
Another NHP that plays a key role in biological research is the chimpanzee (Pan
troglodytes). iPS cells generated from the chimpanzee can be of great interest in
comparative in vitro studies. We investigated if similar deficits in
differentiation potential might arise in chimpanzee iPS cells reprogrammed using 
various technologies. The results show that, while some deficits were observed in
iPS cell clones generated using three different technologies, there was no clear 
association with the vector used. These deficits in differentiation were also
prevented by a 24 h pretreatment with 0.5 % dimethyl sulfoxide.

Copyright: © 2017 Jacob J. Hemmi et al.

DOI: 10.5194/pb-4-153-2017 
PMCID: PMC7041531
PMID: 32110703 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict of
interest.


823. J Neurosci Methods. 2017 Nov 1;291:51-60. doi: 10.1016/j.jneumeth.2017.08.006.
Epub 2017 Aug 9.

Novel method of extracting motion from natural movies.

Suzuki W(1), Ichinohe N(2), Tani T(2), Hayami T(3), Miyakawa N(2), Watanabe S(3),
Takeichi H(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ultrastructural Research, National Institute of Neuroscience,
National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, Kodaira, Tokyo, Japan; Ichinohe
Neural System Group, Laboratory for Molecular Analysis of Higher Brain Functions,
RIKEN Brain Science Institute, RIKEN, Wako, Saitama, Japan. Electronic address:
watarus@ncnp.go.jp.
(2)Department of Ultrastructural Research, National Institute of Neuroscience,
National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, Kodaira, Tokyo, Japan; Ichinohe
Neural System Group, Laboratory for Molecular Analysis of Higher Brain Functions,
RIKEN Brain Science Institute, RIKEN, Wako, Saitama, Japan.
(3)Department of Ultrastructural Research, National Institute of Neuroscience,
National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, Kodaira, Tokyo, Japan.
(4)Computational Engineering Applications Unit, Advanced Center for Computing and
Communication (ACCC), RIKEN, Wako, Saitama, Japan.

BACKGROUND: The visual system in primates can be segregated into motion and shape
pathways. Interaction occurs at multiple stages along these pathways. Processing 
of shape-from-motion and biological motion is considered to be a higher-order
integration process involving motion and shape information. However, relatively
limited types of stimuli have been used in previous studies on these integration 
processes.
NEW METHOD: We propose a new algorithm to extract object motion information from 
natural movies and to move random dots in accordance with the information. The
object motion information is extracted by estimating the dynamics of local normal
vectors of the image intensity projected onto the x-y plane of the movie.
RESULTS: An electrophysiological experiment on two adult common marmoset monkeys 
(Callithrix jacchus) showed that the natural and random dot movies generated with
this new algorithm yielded comparable neural responses in the middle temporal
visual area.
COMPARISON WITH EXISTING METHODS: In principle, this algorithm provided random
dot motion stimuli containing shape information for arbitrary natural movies.
This new method is expected to expand the neurophysiological and psychophysical
experimental protocols to elucidate the integration processing of motion and
shape information in biological systems.
CONCLUSIONS: The novel algorithm proposed here was effective in extracting object
motion information from natural movies and provided new motion stimuli to
investigate higher-order motion information processing.

Copyright © 2017 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jneumeth.2017.08.006 
PMID: 28802702  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

