

826. Front Cell Neurosci. 2017 Jul 26;11:212. doi: 10.3389/fncel.2017.00212.
eCollection 2017.

The FOXP2-Driven Network in Developmental Disorders and Neurodegeneration.

Oswald F(1), Klöble P(1), Ruland A(1), Rosenkranz D(2), Hinz B(2)(3), Butter
F(4), Ramljak S(5), Zechner U(3)(6), Herlyn H(2).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Internal Medicine, Department of Internal Medicine I, University
Medical Center UlmUlm, Germany.
(2)Institut für Organismische und Molekulare Evolutionsbiologie, Johannes
Gutenberg-University MainzMainz, Germany.
(3)Institute of Human Genetics, University Medical Center MainzMainz, Germany.
(4)Institute of Molecular BiologyMainz, Germany.
(5)Sciema UGMainz, Germany.
(6)Dr. Senckenbergisches Zentrum für HumangenetikFrankfurt, Germany.

The transcription repressor FOXP2 is a crucial player in nervous system evolution
and development of humans and songbirds. In order to provide an additional
insight into its functional role we compared target gene expression levels
between human neuroblastoma cells (SH-SY5Y) stably overexpressing FOXP2 cDNA of
either humans or the common chimpanzee, Rhesus monkey, and marmoset,
respectively. RNA-seq led to identification of 27 genes with differential
regulation under the control of human FOXP2, which were previously reported to
have FOXP2-driven and/or songbird song-related expression regulation. RT-qPCR and
Western blotting indicated differential regulation of additional 13 new target
genes in response to overexpression of human FOXP2. These genes may be directly
regulated by FOXP2 considering numerous matches of established FOXP2-binding
motifs as well as publicly available FOXP2-ChIP-seq reads within their putative
promoters. Ontology analysis of the new and reproduced targets, along with their 
interactors in a network, revealed an enrichment of terms relating to cellular
signaling and communication, metabolism and catabolism, cellular migration and
differentiation, and expression regulation. Notably, terms including the words
"neuron" or "axonogenesis" were also enriched. Complementary literature screening
uncovered many connections to human developmental (autism spectrum disease,
schizophrenia, Down syndrome, agenesis of corpus callosum,
trismus-pseudocamptodactyly, ankyloglossia, facial dysmorphology) and
neurodegenerative diseases and disorders (Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, and
Huntington's diseases, Lewy body dementia, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis). Links 
to deafness and dyslexia were detected, too. Such relations existed for single
proteins (e.g., DCDC2, NURR1, PHOX2B, MYH8, and MYH13) and groups of proteins
which conjointly function in mRNA processing, ribosomal recruitment, cell-cell
adhesion (e.g., CDH4), cytoskeleton organization, neuro-inflammation, and
processing of amyloid precursor protein. Conspicuously, many links pointed to an 
involvement of the FOXP2-driven network in JAK/STAT signaling and the regulation 
of the ezrin-radixin-moesin complex. Altogether, the applied phylogenetic
perspective substantiated FOXP2's importance for nervous system development,
maintenance, and functioning. However, the study also disclosed new regulatory
pathways that might prove to be useful for understanding the molecular background
of the aforementioned developmental disorders and neurodegenerative diseases.

DOI: 10.3389/fncel.2017.00212 
PMCID: PMC5526973
PMID: 28798667 


827. PLoS One. 2017 Aug 10;12(8):e0182905. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0182905.
eCollection 2017.

Identification of Plasmodium spp. in Neotropical primates of Maranhense Amazon in
Northeast Brazil.

Figueiredo MAP(1), Di Santi SM(2), Manrique WG(3), André MR(1), Machado RZ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Immunoparasitology, School of Agrarian and Veterinary Sciences
(FCAV), UNESP, Jaboticabal Campus, Jaboticabal, São Paulo, Brazil.
(2)Center for Malaria Studies, Superintendency for Endemic Disease Control
(SUCEN), Department of Health of the State of São Paulo/ Institute of Tropical
Medicine of Sao Paulo (IMTSP), USP, Sao Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil.
(3)Laboratory of Veterinary Pathology, Brazil University, Descalvado Campus,
Descalvado, São Paulo, Brazil.

In the Brazilian Amazon region, malaria caused by Plasmodium malariae is
considered to be a zoonosis because of cross-transfer of the parasite between
humans and Neotropical primates. To contribute information on this issue, we
investigated occurrences of natural infection with Plasmodium sp. among
Neotropical primates in the Maranhense Amazon (Amazon region of the state of
Maranhão), in the northeastern region of Brazil. Blood samples were collected
from 161 Neotropical primates of six species that were caught in an environmental
reserve (Sítio Aguahy) and from captive primates (CETAS-Wildlife Screening
Center, municipality of São Luís), in Maranhão. Plasmodium sp. was diagnosed
based on light microscopy, PCR, qPCR and LAMP for amplification of the 18S rRNA
gene. Serum samples were also assayed by means of indirect immunofluorescence for
IgG antibodies against P. malariae/P. brasilianum, P. falciparum and P. berghei. 
Parasites were detected through light microscopy on five slides from captive
primates (four Sapajus spp. and one Callithrix jacchus). In the molecular tests, 
34.16% (55/161) and 29.81% (48/161) of the animals sampled were positive in the
qPCR and PCR assays, respectively. In the PCR, 47/48 animals were positive for P.
malariae/P. brasilianum; of these, eight were free-living primates and 39 from
CETAS, São Luís. One sample showed a band in the genus-specific reaction, but not
in the second PCR reaction. Anti-P. malariae/P. brasilianum IgG antibodies were
detected in four serum samples from Sapajus spp. in captivity. In this study,
circulation of P. malariae/P. brasilianum in Neotropical primates was confirmed, 
with low levels of parasitemia and low levels of antibodies. The importance of
these animals as reservoirs of human malaria in the region studied is still
unknown. This scenario has an impact on control and elimination of malaria in
this region.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0182905 
PMCID: PMC5552124
PMID: 28796820  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

