

831. Behav Brain Res. 2018 Oct 15;352:151-160. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2017.07.042. Epub
2017 Jul 29.

Assessment of behavioural deficits following ischaemic stroke in the marmoset.

Le Gal R(1), Bernaudin M(1), Toutain J(1), Touzani O(2).

Author information: 
(1)Normandie-Univ, UNICAEN, CEA, CNRS, ISTCT/CERVOxy Group, Caen, France.
(2)Normandie-Univ, UNICAEN, CEA, CNRS, ISTCT/CERVOxy Group, Caen, France.
Electronic address: touzani@cyceron.fr.

Stroke is a common and devastating disease worldwide. Over the last two decades, 
many therapeutic approaches to ameliorate ischaemic stroke have been promising in
animal studies but failed when transferred to the clinical situation. One of the 
possible explanations for these failures is the widespread use of animal models
of cerebral ischemia that do not mimic the pathology encountered in the clinic.
Accordingly, many expert committees recommended the integration of higher order
species such as non-human primates in pre-clinical stroke studies. The common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a small New World monkey, start to stand out in
the neuroscience field as a good compromise between larger primates and rodents. 
In this review, we discuss the relevance of the use of the marmoset in stroke
studies. We will focus on behavioural tests developed in this species to assess
sensorimotor deficits and their recovery during acute and chronic stages of brain
ischaemia. The aim of this appraisal is to provide a comprehensive overview of
the existing approaches to induce stroke in the marmoset as well as the paradigms
for behavioural testing in this species. The data summarized in this review
should contribute to the improvement of future stoke studies in the marmoset and 
accordingly improve the translation of the results from bench to bed.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2017.07.042 
PMID: 28760698  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


832. Biol Psychiatry. 2017 Dec 15;82(12):895-903. doi: 10.1016/j.biopsych.2017.06.016.
Epub 2017 Jun 23.

Converging Prefronto-Insula-Amygdala Pathways in Negative Emotion Regulation
in Marmoset Monkeys.

Shiba Y(1), Oikonomidis L(1), Sawiak S(2), Fryer TD(3), Hong YT(3), Cockcroft
G(1), Santangelo AM(1), Roberts AC(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Development and Neuroscience, Wolfson Brain Imaging 
Centre, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, United Kingdom; Behavioural and
Clinical Neuroscience Institute, Wolfson Brain Imaging Centre, University of
Cambridge, Cambridge, United Kingdom.
(2)Department of Psychology, Wolfson Brain Imaging Centre, University of
Cambridge, Cambridge, United Kingdom; Behavioural and Clinical Neuroscience
Institute, Wolfson Brain Imaging Centre, University of Cambridge, Cambridge,
United Kingdom.
(3)Department of Clinical Neurosciences, Wolfson Brain Imaging Centre, University
of Cambridge, Cambridge, United Kingdom.
(4)Department of Physiology, Development and Neuroscience, Wolfson Brain Imaging 
Centre, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, United Kingdom; Behavioural and
Clinical Neuroscience Institute, Wolfson Brain Imaging Centre, University of
Cambridge, Cambridge, United Kingdom. Electronic address: acr4@cam.ac.uk.

BACKGROUND: Impaired regulation of emotional responses to potential threat is a
core feature of affective disorders. However, while the subcortical circuitry
responsible for processing and expression of fear has been well characterized,
the top-down control of this circuitry is less well understood. Our recent
studies demonstrated that heightened emotionality, as measured both
physiologically and behaviorally, during conditioned fear and innate/social
threat was induced, independently, by excitotoxic lesions of either the anterior 
orbitofrontal cortex (antOFC) or ventrolateral prefrontal cortex (vlPFC). An
important outstanding question is whether the antOFC and vlPFC act on common or
distinct downstream targets to regulate negative emotion.
METHODS: The question was addressed by combining localized excitotoxic lesions in
the PFC of a nonhuman primate and functional neuroimaging
([18F]fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography) with a fear-regulating
extinction paradigm. Marmoset monkeys with unilateral lesions of either the
antOFC or vlPFC were scanned immediately following exposure to a fearful or safe 
context, and differences in [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose uptake were evaluated.
RESULTS: [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose uptake in the insula and amygdala of the intact 
hemisphere was significantly increased in response to the fearful context
compared with the safe context. Such discrimination between the two contexts was 
not reflected in the activity of the insula-amygdala of the antOFC or
vlPFC-lesioned hemisphere. Instead, uptake was at an intermediate level in both
contexts.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings demonstrate that the distinct control functions of
the antOFC and vlPFC converge on the same downstream targets to promote emotion
regulation, taking us closer to a mechanistic understanding of different forms of
anxiety.

Copyright © 2017 Society of Biological Psychiatry. Published by Elsevier Inc. All
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopsych.2017.06.016 
PMCID: PMC5697497
PMID: 28756869  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

