

89. Neuropharmacology. 2021 Oct 15;198:108755. doi: 10.1016/j.neuropharm.2021.108755.
Epub 2021 Aug 17.

Neuron-specific responses to acetylcholine within the spinal dorsal horn circuits
of rodent and primate.

Sykes MJ(1), Kekesi OS(1), Wong YT(2), Zhao FY(3), Spanswick D(4), Imlach WL(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Melbourne, VIC, 3800, Australia; 
Monash Biomedicine Discovery Institute, Melbourne, VIC, 3800, Australia.
(2)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Melbourne, VIC, 3800, Australia; 
Monash Biomedicine Discovery Institute, Melbourne, VIC, 3800, Australia;
Department of Electrical and Computer Systems Engineering, Melbourne, VIC, 3800, 
Australia.
(3)NeuroSolutions Ltd, Coventry, CV4 7AL, United Kingdom.
(4)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Melbourne, VIC, 3800, Australia; 
Monash Biomedicine Discovery Institute, Melbourne, VIC, 3800, Australia;
University of Warwick, Warwick Medical School, Coventry, CV4 7AL, United Kingdom.
(5)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Melbourne, VIC, 3800, Australia; 
Monash Biomedicine Discovery Institute, Melbourne, VIC, 3800, Australia.
Electronic address: wendy.imlach@monash.edu.

Excitatory and inhibitory neurotransmission within the spinal dorsal horn is
tightly controlled to regulate transmission of nociceptive signals to the brain. 
One aspect of this control is modulation of neuronal activity through cholinergic
signaling. Nociceptive neurons in the dorsal horn express both nicotinic and
muscarinic cholinergic receptors and activation of these receptors reduces pain
in humans, while inhibition leads to nociceptive hypersensitivity. At a cellular 
level, acetylcholine (ACh) has diverse effects on excitability which is dependent
on the receptor and neuronal subtypes involved. In the present study we sought to
characterize the electrophysiological responses of specific subsets of lamina II 
interneurons from rat and marmoset spinal cord. Neurons were grouped by
morphology and by action potential firing properties. Whole-cell voltage-clamp
recordings from lamina II dorsal horn neurons of adult rats showed that bath
applied acetylcholine increased, decreased or had no effect on spontaneous
synaptic current activity in a cell-type specific manner. ACh modulated
inhibitory synaptic activity in 80% of neurons, whereas excitatory synaptic
activity was affected in less than 50% of neurons. In whole-cell current clamp
recordings, brief somatic application of ACh induced cell-type specific responses
in 79% of rat lamina II neurons, which included: depolarization and action
potential firing, subthreshold membrane depolarization, biphasic responses
characterized by transient depolarization followed by hyperpolarization and
membrane hyperpolarization alone. Similar responses were seen in marmoset lamina 
II neurons and the properties of each neuron group were consistent across
species. ACh-induced hyperpolarization was blocked by the muscarinic antagonist
atropine and all forms of acetylcholine-induced depolarization were blocked by
the nicotinic antagonist mecamylamine. The cholinergic system plays an important 
role in regulating nociception and this study contributes to our understanding of
how circuit activity is controlled by ACh at a cellular level in primate and
rodent spinal cord.

Copyright © 2021 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuropharm.2021.108755 
PMID: 34416268  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


90. Transbound Emerg Dis. 2021 Nov;68(6):3207-3216. doi: 10.1111/tbed.14287. Epub
2021 Aug 30.

Pathology and One Health implications of fatal Leptospira interrogans infection
in an urbanized, free-ranging, black-tufted marmoset (Callithrix penicillata) in 
Brazil.

Wilson TM(1)(2)(3), Ritter JM(2), Martines RB(2), Gonçalves AAB(1)(3), Fair P(2),
Galloway R(4), Weiner Z(4), Romano APM(5), Costa GRT(6), Melo CB(3), Zaki SR(2), 
Castro MB(1)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Veterinary Pathology Laboratory, University of Brasília, Brasília, Brazil.
(2)Infectious Diseases Pathology Branch, Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention, Division of High-Consequence Pathogens and Pathology, Atlanta,
Georgia, USA.
(3)Graduate Program in Animal Science, University of Brasília, Brasilia, Brazil.
(4)Bacterial Special Pathogens Branch, Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention, Division of High-Consequence Pathogens and Pathology, Atlanta,
Georgia, USA.
(5)Technical Group on Arbovirus Surveillance, General Coordination of
Communicable Diseases, Department of Communicable Disease Surveillance,
Secretariat of Health Surveillance, Brazilian Ministry of Health, Brasilia,
Brazil.
(6)Environmental Health Surveillance Directorate of the Federal District,
Brasilia, Brazil.

Leptospirosis is a zoonotic neglected disease of worldwide public health concern.
Leptospira species can infect a wide range of wild and domestic mammals and lead 
to a spectrum of disease, including severe and fatal forms. Herein, we report for
the first time a fatal Leptospira interrogans infection in a free-ranging
nonhuman primate (NHP), a black-tufted marmoset. Icterus, pulmonary haemorrhage, 
interstitial nephritis, and hepatocellular dissociation were the main findings
raising the suspicion of leptospirosis. Diagnostic confirmation was based on
specific immunohistochemical and PCR assays for Leptospira species.
Immunolocalization of leptospiral antigens and identification of pathogenic
species (L. interrogans species) were important for better understanding the
pathogenesis of the disease. One Health-related implications of free-ranging NHPs
in anthropized areas and transmission dynamics of human and animal leptospirosis 
are discussed.

© 2021 Wiley-VCH GmbH. This article has been contributed to by US Government
employees and their work is in the public domain in the USA.

DOI: 10.1111/tbed.14287 
PMID: 34387927  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

