

90. Transbound Emerg Dis. 2021 Nov;68(6):3207-3216. doi: 10.1111/tbed.14287. Epub
2021 Aug 30.

Pathology and One Health implications of fatal Leptospira interrogans infection
in an urbanized, free-ranging, black-tufted marmoset (Callithrix penicillata) in 
Brazil.

Wilson TM(1)(2)(3), Ritter JM(2), Martines RB(2), Gonçalves AAB(1)(3), Fair P(2),
Galloway R(4), Weiner Z(4), Romano APM(5), Costa GRT(6), Melo CB(3), Zaki SR(2), 
Castro MB(1)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Veterinary Pathology Laboratory, University of Brasília, Brasília, Brazil.
(2)Infectious Diseases Pathology Branch, Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention, Division of High-Consequence Pathogens and Pathology, Atlanta,
Georgia, USA.
(3)Graduate Program in Animal Science, University of Brasília, Brasilia, Brazil.
(4)Bacterial Special Pathogens Branch, Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention, Division of High-Consequence Pathogens and Pathology, Atlanta,
Georgia, USA.
(5)Technical Group on Arbovirus Surveillance, General Coordination of
Communicable Diseases, Department of Communicable Disease Surveillance,
Secretariat of Health Surveillance, Brazilian Ministry of Health, Brasilia,
Brazil.
(6)Environmental Health Surveillance Directorate of the Federal District,
Brasilia, Brazil.

Leptospirosis is a zoonotic neglected disease of worldwide public health concern.
Leptospira species can infect a wide range of wild and domestic mammals and lead 
to a spectrum of disease, including severe and fatal forms. Herein, we report for
the first time a fatal Leptospira interrogans infection in a free-ranging
nonhuman primate (NHP), a black-tufted marmoset. Icterus, pulmonary haemorrhage, 
interstitial nephritis, and hepatocellular dissociation were the main findings
raising the suspicion of leptospirosis. Diagnostic confirmation was based on
specific immunohistochemical and PCR assays for Leptospira species.
Immunolocalization of leptospiral antigens and identification of pathogenic
species (L. interrogans species) were important for better understanding the
pathogenesis of the disease. One Health-related implications of free-ranging NHPs
in anthropized areas and transmission dynamics of human and animal leptospirosis 
are discussed.

© 2021 Wiley-VCH GmbH. This article has been contributed to by US Government
employees and their work is in the public domain in the USA.

DOI: 10.1111/tbed.14287 
PMID: 34387927  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


91. J Comp Neurol. 2022 Feb;530(2):574-589. doi: 10.1002/cne.25230. Epub 2021 Aug 23.

Morphometric analysis of astrocytes in vocal production circuits of common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Turk AZ(1), SheikhBahaei S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Neuron-Glia Signaling and Circuits Unit, National Institute of Neurological
Disorders and Stroke, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland, USA.

Astrocytes, the star-shaped glial cells, are the most abundant non-neuronal cell 
population in the central nervous system. They play a key role in modulating
activities of neural networks, including those involved in complex motor
behaviors. Common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus), the most vocal non-human
primate (NHP), have been used to study the physiology of vocalization and social 
vocal production. However, the neural circuitry involved in vocal production is
not fully understood. In addition, even less is known about the involvement of
astrocytes in this circuit. To understand the role, that astrocytes may play in
the complex behavior of vocalization, the initial step may be to study their
structural properties in the cortical and subcortical regions that are known to
be involved in vocalization. Here, in the common marmoset, we identify all
astrocytic subtypes seen in other primate's brains, including intralaminar
astrocytes. In addition, we reveal detailed structural characteristics of
astrocytes and perform morphometric analysis of astrocytes residing in the cortex
and midbrain regions that are associated with vocal production. We found that
cortical astrocytes in these regions illustrate a higher level of complexity when
compared to those in the midbrain. We hypothesize that this complexity that is
expressed in cortical astrocytes may reflect their functions to meet the
metabolic/structural needs of these regions.

Published 2021. This article is a U.S. Government work and is in the public
domain in the USA.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.25230 
PMCID: PMC8716418 [Available on 2023-02-01]
PMID: 34387357  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

