

906. BMC Res Notes. 2017 Mar 9;10(1):121. doi: 10.1186/s13104-017-2447-6.

RNA isolation from precision-cut lung slices (PCLS) from different species.

Niehof M(1), Hildebrandt T(2), Danov O(3), Arndt K(2), Koschmann J(4), Dahlmann
F(3)(5), Hansen T(3), Sewald K(3).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Preclinical Pharmacology and In Vitro Toxicology, Fraunhofer
Institute for Toxicology and Experimental Medicine ITEM, German Center for Lung
Research (DZL), Biomedical Research in Endstage and Obstructive Lung Disease
Hannover (BREATH), Excellence Cluster REBIRTH, Nikolai-Fuchs-Str. 1, 30625,
Hannover, Germany. monika.niehof@item.fraunhofer.de.
(2)Immunology and Respiratory, Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma GmbH & Co. KG,
Ingelheim am Rhein, Germany.
(3)Division of Preclinical Pharmacology and In Vitro Toxicology, Fraunhofer
Institute for Toxicology and Experimental Medicine ITEM, German Center for Lung
Research (DZL), Biomedical Research in Endstage and Obstructive Lung Disease
Hannover (BREATH), Excellence Cluster REBIRTH, Nikolai-Fuchs-Str. 1, 30625,
Hannover, Germany.
(4)geneXplain GmbH, 38302, Wolfenbüttel, Germany.
(5)Pathology Unit, German Primate Center GmbH, Leibniz-Institute for Primate
Research, Kellnerweg 4, 37077, Göttingen, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Functional 3D organ models such as precision-cut lung slices (PCLS)
have recently captured the attention of biomedical research. To enable wider
implementation in research and development, these new biologically relevant organ
models are being constantly refined. A very important issue is to improve the
preparation of high-quality RNA (ribonucleic acid) from PCLS for drug discovery
and development of new therapies. Gene expression analysis at different levels is
used as an important experimental readout. Genome-wide analysis using microarrays
is mostly applied for biomarker selection in disease models or in comprehensive
toxicological studies. Specific biomarker testing by reverse transcriptase
quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RTqPCR) is often used in efficacy
studies. Both applications require high-quality RNA as starting material for the 
generation of reliable data. Additionally, a small number of slices should be
sufficient for satisfactory RNA isolation to allow as many experimental
conditions as possible to be covered with a given tissue sample. Unfortunately,
the vast amount of agarose in PCLS impedes RNA extraction according to the
standard procedures.
RESULTS: We established an optimized protocol for RNA isolation from PCLS from
humans, rats, mice, marmosets, and rhesus macaques based on the separation of
lysis and precipitation steps and a magnetic-bead cleanup procedure. The
resulting RNA is of high purity and possesses a high degree of integrity. There
are no contaminations affecting RTqPCR efficiency or any enzymatic step in sample
preparation for microarray analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: In summary, we isolated RNA from PCLS from different species that is
well suited for RTqPCR and for microarray analysis as downstream applications.

DOI: 10.1186/s13104-017-2447-6 
PMCID: PMC5343379
PMID: 28274266  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


907. Drug Metab Dispos. 2017 May;45(5):497-500. doi: 10.1124/dmd.117.075184. Epub 2017
Mar 3.

Marmoset Flavin-Containing Monooxygenase 3 in the Liver Is a Major Benzydamine
and Sulindac Sulfide Oxygenase.

Uehara S(1), Shimizu M(1), Uno Y(1), Inoue T(1), Sasaki E(1), Yamazaki H(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Drug Metabolism and Pharmacokinetics, Showa Pharmaceutical
University, Machida, Tokyo, Japan (S.U., M.S., H.Y.); Pharmacokinetics and
Bioanalysis Center, Shin Nippon Biomedical Laboratories, Ltd., Kainan, Wakayama, 
Japan (Y.U.); Department of Applied Developmental Biology (T.I.) and Center of
Applied Developmental Biology (E.S.), Central Institute for Experimental Animals,
Kawasaki, Japan; and Keio Advanced Research Center, Keio University, Minato-ku,
Tokyo, Japan (E.S.).
(2)Laboratory of Drug Metabolism and Pharmacokinetics, Showa Pharmaceutical
University, Machida, Tokyo, Japan (S.U., M.S., H.Y.); Pharmacokinetics and
Bioanalysis Center, Shin Nippon Biomedical Laboratories, Ltd., Kainan, Wakayama, 
Japan (Y.U.); Department of Applied Developmental Biology (T.I.) and Center of
Applied Developmental Biology (E.S.), Central Institute for Experimental Animals,
Kawasaki, Japan; and Keio Advanced Research Center, Keio University, Minato-ku,
Tokyo, Japan (E.S.) hyamazak@ac.shoyaku.ac.jp.

Common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) are potentially primate models for
preclinical drug metabolism studies because there are similarities in the
molecular characteristics of cytochrome P450 enzymes between this species and
humans. However, characterization of non-cytochrome P450 enzymes has not been
clarified in marmosets. Here, we report characterization of flavin-containing
monooxygenases FMO1-FMO5 identified in marmoset tissues. Marmoset FMO forms
shared high amino acid sequence identities (93%-95%) and phylogenetic closeness
with human homologous FMO forms. FMO1 and FMO3 mRNA were abundantly expressed in 
the liver and kidneys among five marmoset tissues examined, where FMO3 protein
was detected by immunoblotting. FMO inhibition assays using preheated tissue
microsomes indicated that benzydamine N-oxygenation and sulindac sulfide
S-oxygenation in the marmoset liver was mainly catalyzed by FMO3, the major
hepatic FMO. Marmoset FMO3 protein heterologously expressed in Escherichia coli
effectively catalyzed benzydamine N-oxygenation and sulindac sulfide
S-oxygenation comparable to marmoset liver microsomes. These results indicate
that the FMO3 enzyme expressed in marmoset livers mainly metabolizes benzydamine 
and sulindac sulfide (typical human FMO substrates), suggesting its importance
for FMO-dependent drug metabolism in marmosets.

Copyright © 2017 by The American Society for Pharmacology and Experimental
Therapeutics.

DOI: 10.1124/dmd.117.075184 
PMID: 28258069  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

