

907. Drug Metab Dispos. 2017 May;45(5):497-500. doi: 10.1124/dmd.117.075184. Epub 2017
Mar 3.

Marmoset Flavin-Containing Monooxygenase 3 in the Liver Is a Major Benzydamine
and Sulindac Sulfide Oxygenase.

Uehara S(1), Shimizu M(1), Uno Y(1), Inoue T(1), Sasaki E(1), Yamazaki H(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Drug Metabolism and Pharmacokinetics, Showa Pharmaceutical
University, Machida, Tokyo, Japan (S.U., M.S., H.Y.); Pharmacokinetics and
Bioanalysis Center, Shin Nippon Biomedical Laboratories, Ltd., Kainan, Wakayama, 
Japan (Y.U.); Department of Applied Developmental Biology (T.I.) and Center of
Applied Developmental Biology (E.S.), Central Institute for Experimental Animals,
Kawasaki, Japan; and Keio Advanced Research Center, Keio University, Minato-ku,
Tokyo, Japan (E.S.).
(2)Laboratory of Drug Metabolism and Pharmacokinetics, Showa Pharmaceutical
University, Machida, Tokyo, Japan (S.U., M.S., H.Y.); Pharmacokinetics and
Bioanalysis Center, Shin Nippon Biomedical Laboratories, Ltd., Kainan, Wakayama, 
Japan (Y.U.); Department of Applied Developmental Biology (T.I.) and Center of
Applied Developmental Biology (E.S.), Central Institute for Experimental Animals,
Kawasaki, Japan; and Keio Advanced Research Center, Keio University, Minato-ku,
Tokyo, Japan (E.S.) hyamazak@ac.shoyaku.ac.jp.

Common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) are potentially primate models for
preclinical drug metabolism studies because there are similarities in the
molecular characteristics of cytochrome P450 enzymes between this species and
humans. However, characterization of non-cytochrome P450 enzymes has not been
clarified in marmosets. Here, we report characterization of flavin-containing
monooxygenases FMO1-FMO5 identified in marmoset tissues. Marmoset FMO forms
shared high amino acid sequence identities (93%-95%) and phylogenetic closeness
with human homologous FMO forms. FMO1 and FMO3 mRNA were abundantly expressed in 
the liver and kidneys among five marmoset tissues examined, where FMO3 protein
was detected by immunoblotting. FMO inhibition assays using preheated tissue
microsomes indicated that benzydamine N-oxygenation and sulindac sulfide
S-oxygenation in the marmoset liver was mainly catalyzed by FMO3, the major
hepatic FMO. Marmoset FMO3 protein heterologously expressed in Escherichia coli
effectively catalyzed benzydamine N-oxygenation and sulindac sulfide
S-oxygenation comparable to marmoset liver microsomes. These results indicate
that the FMO3 enzyme expressed in marmoset livers mainly metabolizes benzydamine 
and sulindac sulfide (typical human FMO substrates), suggesting its importance
for FMO-dependent drug metabolism in marmosets.

Copyright © 2017 by The American Society for Pharmacology and Experimental
Therapeutics.

DOI: 10.1124/dmd.117.075184 
PMID: 28258069  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


908. Metallomics. 2017 Apr 19;9(4):411-423. doi: 10.1039/c7mt00012j.

Whole-brain metallomic analysis of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Knauer B(1), Majka P(2), Watkins KJ(3), Taylor AWR(3), Malamanova D(3), Paul
B(4), Yu HH(3), Bush AI(5), Hare DJ(6), Reser DH(7).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Faculty of Medicine, Nursing, and Health Sciences,
Monash University, Clayton, Victoria 3800, Australia and Research School, Ruhr
University Bochum, Bochum, Germany.
(2)Laboratory of Neuroinformatics, Department of Neurophysiology, Nencki
Institute of Experimental Biology of Polish Academy of Sciences, 3 Pasteur
Street, 02-093 Warsaw, Poland.
(3)Department of Physiology, Faculty of Medicine, Nursing, and Health Sciences,
Monash University, Clayton, Victoria 3800, Australia.
(4)School of Earth Sciences, The University of Melbourne, Parkville, Victoria
3010, Australia and The Florey Institute of Neuroscience and Mental Health, The
University of Melbourne, Parkville, 3010, Victoria, Australia.
(5)The Florey Institute of Neuroscience and Mental Health, The University of
Melbourne, Parkville, 3010, Victoria, Australia.
(6)The Florey Institute of Neuroscience and Mental Health, The University of
Melbourne, Parkville, 3010, Victoria, Australia and Elemental Bio-imaging
Facility, University of Technology Sydney, Broadway, NSW, Australia.
(7)Department of Physiology, Faculty of Medicine, Nursing, and Health Sciences,
Monash University, Clayton, Victoria 3800, Australia and Graduate Entry Medical
Program, School of Rural Health, Monash University, Churchill, Victoria 3842,
Australia.

Despite the importance of transition metals for normal brain function, relatively
little is known about the distribution of these elemental species across the
different tissue compartments of the primate brain. In this study, we employed
laser ablation-inductively coupled plasma-mass spectrometry on PFA-fixed brain
sections obtained from two adult common marmosets. Concurrent cytoarchitectonic, 
myeloarchitectonic, and chemoarchitectonic measurements allowed for
identification of the major neocortical, archaecortical, and subcortical
divisions of the brain, and precise localisation of iron, manganese, and zinc
concentrations within each division. Major findings across tissue compartments
included: (1) differentiation of white matter tracts from grey matter based on
manganese and zinc distribution; (2) high iron concentrations in the basal
ganglia, cortex, and substantia nigra; (3) co-localization of high concentrations
of iron and manganese in the primary sensory areas of the cerebral cortex; and
(4) high manganese in the hippocampus. The marmoset has become a model species of
choice for connectomic, aging, and transgenic studies in primates, and the
application of metallomics to these disciplines has the potential to yield high
translational and basic science value.

DOI: 10.1039/c7mt00012j 
PMID: 28246661  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

