

925. Am J Primatol. 2017 May;79(5). doi: 10.1002/ajp.22638. Epub 2017 Jan 24.

Total energy expenditure in captive capuchins (Sapajus apella).

Edwards W(1)(2), Lonsdorf EV(3), Pontzer H(2)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Ohio University, Athens, Ohio.
(2)Department of Anthropology, Hunter College, New York, New York.
(3)Department of Psychology, Franklin and Marshall College, Lancaster,
Pennsylvania.
(4)New York Consortium of Evolutionary Primatology, New York, New York.

Primates have markedly lower total energy expenditure (TEE; kcal/day) than other 
placental mammals, expending approximately 50% less energy for their mass than
non-primate eutherians. However, little is known regarding interspecific
variation of energy expenditure within platyrrhine primates. We investigated TEE 
in captive tufted capuchins (Sapajus apella, n = 8, ages 7-36), a frugivorous
platyrrhine, to compare TEE with other placental mammals and primates. We tested 
the hypothesis that large-brained capuchins would exhibit greater TEE than other 
platyrrhines that are less encephalized. We used the doubly labeled water (DLW)
method to measure TEE over 7-11 days, during which physical activity data were
recorded via focal observation. TEE was strongly correlated with fat free mass,
but sex, age, and rates of walking and climbing were not correlated with
variation in TEE in multivariate analyses controlling for fat free mass. We found
evidence that daily physical activity was negatively correlated with body fat
percentage. Capuchin TEE was similar (P = 0.67) to other, less encephalized
platyrrhines (Callithrix and Alouatta) and 54% lower than other placental
mammals, in analyses controlling for body mass. These results suggest that brain 
size and physical activity do not necessarily influence variation in daily energy
expenditure across primate species.

© 2017 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22638 
PMID: 28118497  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


926. J Physiol. 2017 Jul 1;595(13):4475-4492. doi: 10.1113/JP273569. Epub 2017 Mar 10.

Relationship between cortical state and spiking activity in the lateral
geniculate nucleus of marmosets.

Pietersen ANJ(1)(2), Cheong SK(1)(2), Munn B(1)(3), Gong P(1)(3), Martin
PR(1)(2)(4), Solomon SG(1)(4)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Australian Research Council Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain
Function, University of Sydney, Australia.
(2)Save Sight Institute, University of Sydney Eye Hospital Campus, Sydney,
Australia.
(3)School of Physics, University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia.
(4)School of Medical Sciences, University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia.
(5)Department of Experimental Psychology, University College London, UK.

KEY POINTS: How parallel are the primate visual pathways? In the present study,
we demonstrate that parallel visual pathways in the dorsal lateral geniculate
nucleus (LGN) show distinct patterns of interaction with rhythmic activity in the
primary visual cortex (V1). In the V1 of anaesthetized marmosets, the EEG
frequency spectrum undergoes transient changes that are characterized by
fluctuations in delta-band EEG power. We show that, on multisecond timescales,
spiking activity in an evolutionary primitive (koniocellular) LGN pathway is
specifically linked to these slow EEG spectrum changes. By contrast, on subsecond
(delta frequency) timescales, cortical oscillations can entrain spiking activity 
throughout the entire LGN. Our results are consistent with the hypothesis that,
in waking animals, the koniocellular pathway selectively participates in brain
circuits controlling vigilance and attention.
ABSTRACT: The major afferent cortical pathway in the visual system passes through
the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN), where nerve signals originating in
the eye can first interact with brain circuits regulating visual processing,
vigilance and attention. In the present study, we investigated how ongoing and
visually driven activity in magnocellular (M), parvocellular (P) and
koniocellular (K) layers of the LGN are related to cortical state. We recorded
extracellular spiking activity in the LGN simultaneously with local field
potentials (LFP) in primary visual cortex, in sufentanil-anaesthetized marmoset
monkeys. We found that asynchronous cortical states (marked by low power in
delta-band LFPs) are linked to high spike rates in K cells (but not P cells or M 
cells), on multisecond timescales. Cortical asynchrony precedes the increases in 
K cell spike rates by 1-3 s, implying causality. At subsecond timescales, the
spiking activity in many cells of all (M, P and K) classes is phase-locked to
delta waves in the cortical LFP, and more cells are phase-locked during
synchronous cortical states than during asynchronous cortical states. The switch 
from low-to-high spike rates in K cells does not degrade their visual signalling 
capacity. By contrast, during asynchronous cortical states, the fidelity of
visual signals transmitted by K cells is improved, probably because K cell
responses become less rectified. Overall, the data show that slow fluctuations in
cortical state are selectively linked to K pathway spiking activity, whereas
delta-frequency cortical oscillations entrain spiking activity throughout the
entire LGN, in anaesthetized marmosets.

© 2017 The Authors. The Journal of Physiology © 2017 The Physiological Society.

DOI: 10.1113/JP273569 
PMCID: PMC5491878
PMID: 28116750  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

