

926. J Physiol. 2017 Jul 1;595(13):4475-4492. doi: 10.1113/JP273569. Epub 2017 Mar 10.

Relationship between cortical state and spiking activity in the lateral
geniculate nucleus of marmosets.

Pietersen ANJ(1)(2), Cheong SK(1)(2), Munn B(1)(3), Gong P(1)(3), Martin
PR(1)(2)(4), Solomon SG(1)(4)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Australian Research Council Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain
Function, University of Sydney, Australia.
(2)Save Sight Institute, University of Sydney Eye Hospital Campus, Sydney,
Australia.
(3)School of Physics, University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia.
(4)School of Medical Sciences, University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia.
(5)Department of Experimental Psychology, University College London, UK.

KEY POINTS: How parallel are the primate visual pathways? In the present study,
we demonstrate that parallel visual pathways in the dorsal lateral geniculate
nucleus (LGN) show distinct patterns of interaction with rhythmic activity in the
primary visual cortex (V1). In the V1 of anaesthetized marmosets, the EEG
frequency spectrum undergoes transient changes that are characterized by
fluctuations in delta-band EEG power. We show that, on multisecond timescales,
spiking activity in an evolutionary primitive (koniocellular) LGN pathway is
specifically linked to these slow EEG spectrum changes. By contrast, on subsecond
(delta frequency) timescales, cortical oscillations can entrain spiking activity 
throughout the entire LGN. Our results are consistent with the hypothesis that,
in waking animals, the koniocellular pathway selectively participates in brain
circuits controlling vigilance and attention.
ABSTRACT: The major afferent cortical pathway in the visual system passes through
the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN), where nerve signals originating in
the eye can first interact with brain circuits regulating visual processing,
vigilance and attention. In the present study, we investigated how ongoing and
visually driven activity in magnocellular (M), parvocellular (P) and
koniocellular (K) layers of the LGN are related to cortical state. We recorded
extracellular spiking activity in the LGN simultaneously with local field
potentials (LFP) in primary visual cortex, in sufentanil-anaesthetized marmoset
monkeys. We found that asynchronous cortical states (marked by low power in
delta-band LFPs) are linked to high spike rates in K cells (but not P cells or M 
cells), on multisecond timescales. Cortical asynchrony precedes the increases in 
K cell spike rates by 1-3 s, implying causality. At subsecond timescales, the
spiking activity in many cells of all (M, P and K) classes is phase-locked to
delta waves in the cortical LFP, and more cells are phase-locked during
synchronous cortical states than during asynchronous cortical states. The switch 
from low-to-high spike rates in K cells does not degrade their visual signalling 
capacity. By contrast, during asynchronous cortical states, the fidelity of
visual signals transmitted by K cells is improved, probably because K cell
responses become less rectified. Overall, the data show that slow fluctuations in
cortical state are selectively linked to K pathway spiking activity, whereas
delta-frequency cortical oscillations entrain spiking activity throughout the
entire LGN, in anaesthetized marmosets.

© 2017 The Authors. The Journal of Physiology © 2017 The Physiological Society.

DOI: 10.1113/JP273569 
PMCID: PMC5491878
PMID: 28116750  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


927. Physiol Behav. 2017 May 1;173:79-86. doi: 10.1016/j.physbeh.2017.01.032. Epub
2017 Jan 20.

Long-term-stability of relationship structure in family groups of common
marmosets, and its link to proactive prosociality.

Finkenwirth C(1), Burkart JM(2).

Author information: 
(1)Anthropological Institute and Museum, University of Zurich,
Winterthurerstrasse 190, 8057 Zurich, Switzerland. Electronic address:
christa.finkenwirth@uzh.ch.
(2)Anthropological Institute and Museum, University of Zurich,
Winterthurerstrasse 190, 8057 Zurich, Switzerland.

Cooperatively breeding, group-living common marmosets show differentiated
relationships, where more strongly bonded dyads within a group engage more in
affiliative interactions than less strongly bonded ones. Intriguingly, recent
results suggest that strong bonds do not only occur between breeding partners but
between individuals from any sex or status, and that strong-bond partners exhibit
correlated oxytocin fluctuations (dyadic oxytocin synchrony, OTS) over a period
of six weeks. To date, it is unclear whether such relationships are stable over
time and whether they are also reflected in higher partner-specific proactive
prosociality. To assess the long-term stability of the relationship structure of 
common marmoset family groups, we investigated whether hormonal and behavioral
markers of group structure (dyadic OTS, dyadic affiliation, and individual group 
integration) in common marmoset families remained stable over a period of six
months. We collected baseline urinary OT and social behavior of 36 dyads from
three family groups in a non-reproductive period (period A), and again six months
later, around the birth of new infants (period B). Patterns of dyadic OTS, dyadic
affiliation, and individual group integration were consistent between the two
study periods. Oxytocin data from a fourth group (10 dyads), collected in two
non-reproductive periods separated by a period of more than five years, could
replicate this finding. Furthermore, OTS was also correlated with proactive
prosociality that was assessed experimentally for 38 dyads during an earlier
study. These results suggest that differentiated relationships are stable over
time, even between group members other than the breeding pair, and that more
strongly bonded partners also show higher levels of proactive prosociality.
Future studies are necessary to identify whether these relationships have an
adaptive function, perhaps with regard to positive consequences on
cooperativeness.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.physbeh.2017.01.032 
PMID: 28115225  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

