

932. Nat Commun. 2017 Jan 16;8:14046. doi: 10.1038/ncomms14046.

Limiting parental feedback disrupts vocal development in marmoset monkeys.

Gultekin YB(1), Hage SR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Neurobiology of Vocal Communication, Werner Reichardt Centre for Integrative
Neuroscience, University of Tübingen, Otfried-Müller-Str. 25, Tübingen 72076,
Germany.

Vocalizations of human infants undergo dramatic changes across the first year by 
becoming increasingly mature and speech-like. Human vocal development is
partially dependent on learning by imitation through social feedback between
infants and caregivers. Recent studies revealed similar developmental processes
being influenced by parental feedback in marmoset monkeys for apparently innate
vocalizations. Marmosets produce infant-specific vocalizations that disappear
after the first postnatal months. However, it is yet unclear whether parental
feedback is an obligate requirement for proper vocal development. Using
quantitative measures to compare call parameters and vocal sequence structure we 
show that, in contrast to normally raised marmosets, marmosets that were
separated from parents after the third postnatal month still produced
infant-specific vocal behaviour at subadult stages. These findings suggest a
significant role of social feedback on primate vocal development until the
subadult stages and further show that marmoset monkeys are a compelling model
system for early human vocal development.

DOI: 10.1038/ncomms14046 
PMCID: PMC5241798
PMID: 28090084  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


933. PLoS One. 2017 Jan 13;12(1):e0170240. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0170240.
eCollection 2017.

Metabolic Dysregulation in Hepacivirus Infection of Common Marmosets (Callithrix 
jacchus).

Manickam C(1), Wachtman L(2), Martinot AJ(1), Giavedoni LD(3), Reeves RK(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Virology and Vaccine Research, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical
Center, Boston, Massachusetts, United States of America.
(2)New England Primate Research Center, Harvard Medical School, Southborough
Campus, Southborough, Massachusetts, United States of America.
(3)Southwest National Primate Research Center, Texas Biomedical Research
Institute, San Antonio, Texas, United States of America.

Chronic hepatitis C has been associated with metabolic syndrome that includes
insulin resistance, hepatic steatosis and obesity. These metabolic aberrations
are risk factors for disease severity and treatment outcome in infected patients.
Experimental infection of marmosets with GBV-B serves as a tangible, small animal
model for human HCV infection, and while virology and pathology are well
described, a full investigation of clinical disease and the metabolic milieu is
lacking. In this study six marmosets were infected intravenously with GBV-B and
changes in hematologic, serum biochemical and plasma metabolic measures were
investigated over the duration of infection. Infected animals exhibited signs of 
lymphocytopenia, but platelet and RBC counts were generally stable or even
increased. Although most animals showed a transient decline in blood glucose,
infection resulted in several fold increases in plasma insulin, glucagon and
glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1). All infected animals experienced transient
weight loss within the first 28 days of infection, but also became
hypertriglyceridemic and had up to 10-fold increases in adipocytokines such as
resistin and plasminogen activator inhibitor 1 (PAI-1). In liver, moderate to
severe cytoplasmic changes associated with steatotic changes was observed
microscopically at 168 days post infection. Collectively, these results suggest
that GBV-B infection is accompanied by hematologic, biochemical and metabolic
abnormalities that could lead to obesity, diabetes, thrombosis and
atherosclerosis, even after virus has been cleared. Our findings mirror those
found in HCV patients, suggesting that metabolic syndrome could be conserved
among hepaciviruses, and both mechanistic and interventional studies for treating
HCV-induced metabolic complications could be evaluated in this animal model.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0170240 
PMCID: PMC5234844
PMID: 28085952  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.

