

949. Transfusion. 2017 Jan;57(1):60-69. doi: 10.1111/trf.13909. Epub 2016 Nov 25.

Differentiation of induced pluripotent stem cell-derived neutrophil granulocytes 
from common marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus).

Schrimpf C(1), Wrede C(2)(3), Glage S(4), Hegermann J(2)(3), Backhaus S(1),
Blasczyk R(1), Heuft HG(1), Müller T(1)(3)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Transfusion Medicine, REBIRTH Cluster of Excellence, Hannover.
(2)Institute of Functional and Applied Anatomy, REBIRTH Cluster of Excellence,
Hannover.
(3)REBIRTH Cluster of Excellence, Hannover, Germany.
(4)Institute for Laboratory Animal Science and Central Animal Facility, Hannover 
Medical School, Hannover, Germany.
(5)Synlab Medical Care Centre Weiden Ltd, Weiden, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Inherited and acquired marrow failure syndromes most commonly lead to
defect in myeloid and/or neutrophil differentiation and/or function. Besides
this, neutropenia induced by cancer-adjusted chemotherapy is a frequent clinical 
problem. In both cases, cell replacement therapy is a well-established, but due
to necessity of donors limited and perilous procedure. Therefore, autologous cell
replacement from patients' own marrow-derived cells lowers risk and bares new
possibilities for therapy. Since the immune system of the marmoset monkey is
known to show high similarity to humans, preclinical studies with these animals
bare high hopes for immunologic research and cell replacement therapy.
STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS: Marmoset-induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells (cj-iPSC)
were first cultivated on mouse embryonic feeder cells in medium containing
recombinant human vascular endothelial growth factor. After 13 days,
CD34+/vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-2 (VEGFR2)- cells were sorted, 
treated with interleukin (IL-3), thrombopoietin, and stem cell factor for 20 days
and further cultivated with granulocyte-colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) and
IL-3 for 10 days.
RESULTS: CD34+/VEGFR2- cells could be generated in high amounts (39.65 ± 6.01%;
2.31 × 105 cells). Afterward, these hematopoietic progenitors could be
successfully differentiated into mature cj-iPSC-derived neutrophils showing
similar morphology, specific surface antigens, and neutrophil-specific gene
products and in vitro phagocytic activity.
CONCLUSION: cj-iPSC-derived neutrophils bare high hopes in hematologic cell
replacement therapy. They exhibit high morphologic similarity to native
neutrophils and present neutrophil-specific surface antigens, antimicrobial
proteins, and gene products yielding an auspicious approach for continuative
experiments including tests in living animals.

© 2016 The Authors Transfusion published by Wiley Periodicals, Inc. on behalf of 
AABB.

DOI: 10.1111/trf.13909 
PMID: 27888517  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


950. J Neurophysiol. 2017 Feb 1;117(2):713-727. doi: 10.1152/jn.00476.2016. Epub 2016 
Nov 23.

Contextual effects of noise on vocalization encoding in primary auditory cortex.

Ni R(1), Bender DA(1), Shanechi AM(1), Gamble JR(1), Barbour DL(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Sensory Neuroscience and Neuroengineering, Department of
Biomedical Engineering, Washington University in St. Louis, St. Louis, Missouri.
(2)Laboratory of Sensory Neuroscience and Neuroengineering, Department of
Biomedical Engineering, Washington University in St. Louis, St. Louis, Missouri
dbarbour@wustl.edu.

Robust auditory perception plays a pivotal function for processing behaviorally
relevant sounds, particularly with distractions from the environment. The
neuronal coding enabling this ability, however, is still not well understood. In 
this study, we recorded single-unit activity from the primary auditory cortex
(A1) of awake marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) while delivering conspecific 
vocalizations degraded by two different background noises: broadband white noise 
and vocalization babble. Noise effects on neural representation of target
vocalizations were quantified by measuring the responses' similarity to those
elicited by natural vocalizations as a function of signal-to-noise ratio. A
clustering approach was used to describe the range of response profiles by
reducing the population responses to a summary of four response classes (robust, 
balanced, insensitive, and brittle) under both noise conditions. This clustering 
approach revealed that, on average, approximately two-thirds of the neurons
change their response class when encountering different noises. Therefore, the
distortion induced by one particular masking background in single-unit responses 
is not necessarily predictable from that induced by another, suggesting the low
likelihood of a unique group of noise-invariant neurons across different
background conditions in A1. Regarding noise influence on neural activities, the 
brittle response group showed addition of spiking activity both within and
between phrases of vocalizations relative to clean vocalizations, whereas the
other groups generally showed spiking activity suppression within phrases, and
the alteration between phrases was noise dependent. Overall, the variable
single-unit responses, yet consistent response types, imply that primate A1
performs scene analysis through the collective activity of multiple neurons.NEW &
NOTEWORTHY: The understanding of where and how auditory scene analysis is
accomplished is of broad interest to neuroscientists. In this paper, we
systematically investigated neuronal coding of multiple vocalizations degraded by
two distinct noises at various signal-to-noise ratios in nonhuman primates. In
the process, we uncovered heterogeneity of single-unit representations for
different auditory scenes yet homogeneity of responses across the population.

Copyright © 2017 the American Physiological Society.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00476.2016 
PMCID: PMC5296407
PMID: 27881720  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

