

951. Sci Rep. 2016 Nov 23;6:37489. doi: 10.1038/srep37489.

Characterization of two distinct early post-entry blocks to HIV-1 in common
marmoset lymphocytes.

Pacheco B(1)(2), Menéndez-Arias L(1), Sodroski J(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Centro de Biología Molecular Severo Ochoa, Consejo Superior de Investigaciones
Científicas and Universidad Autónoma de Madrid, Madrid, Spain.
(2)Department of Cancer Immunology and Virology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute and
Department of Microbiology and Immunobiology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA,
USA.
(3)Department of Immunology and Infectious Diseases, Harvard School of Public
Health, Boston, MA, USA.

In nature, primate lentiviruses infect humans and several Old World monkeys and
apes. However, to date, lentiviruses infecting New World monkeys have not been
described. We studied the susceptibility of common marmoset cells to HIV-1
infection and observed the presence of post-entry blocks to the early phase of
HIV-1 infection in peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBLs) and a B lymphocytic cell
line (B-LCL). The blocks present in these cells are dominant and phenotypically
different from each other. In PBLs, the block occurs at the level of reverse
transcription, reducing the accumulation of early and late transcripts, similar
to the block imposed by TRIM5α. However, we have found that marmoset TRIM5α does 
not block HIV-1. In contrast, the restriction factor present in B-LCLs blocks
HIV-1 replication at a later step, after nuclear entry, and inhibits integration.
Additionally, we have identified an HIV-1 capsid mutant, N74D, that is able to
escape the restriction in the marmoset B-LCLs. Our results suggest that the
factors responsible for the blocks present in marmoset PBLs and B-LCLs are
different. We propose the existence of at least two new restriction factors able 
to block HIV-1 infection in marmoset lymphocytes.

DOI: 10.1038/srep37489 
PMCID: PMC5120322
PMID: 27876849  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


952. Folia Primatol (Basel). 2016;87(4):262-277. Epub 2016 Nov 19.

Local Ecological Knowledge about Endangered Primates in a Rural Community in
Paraíba, Brazil.

Torres Junior EU(1), Valença-Montenegro MM, Castro CS.

Author information: 
(1)Programa de Pós-Graduação em Ecologia e Monitoramento Ambiental, Universidade 
Federal da Paraíba, Rio Tinto, Brazil.

The study of local ecological knowledge (LEK) fosters a better understanding of
the relationship between humans and the environment. We assessed respondents'
ecological knowledge of primates in a rural community located near the Atlantic
Forest remnants in the state of Paraíba, Brazil. Populations of Alouatta belzebul
(red-handed howler monkeys), Sapajus flavius (blonde capuchins), and Callithrix
jacchus (the common marmoset) inhabit the region. We conducted 200
semi-structured interviews and applied thematic content analysis, with weighting,
to the responses to quantify the LEK. Respondents showed a low LEK, despite the
community's proximity to forest remnants. However, the LEK was significantly
higher among men, as well as among those who had a greater degree of contact with
the primates. Age did not influence LEK. The studied community apparently does
not intensively exploit the forest resources nor does it economically depend on
primates, which may explain these individuals' low levels of knowledge about
these animals. Such data may support future studies, as well as environmental
education and action plans, especially for A. belzebul and S. flavius, both of
which are endangered species and targets of the National Action Plan for the
Conservation of the Primates of the Northeast.

© 2016 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000452406 
PMID: 27866209  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

