

964. Folia Primatol (Basel). 2016;87(4):244-261. Epub 2016 Nov 2.

Pelage Variation and Distribution of the Black Lion Tamarin, Leontopithecus
chrysopygus.

Garbino GS(1), Rezende GC, Valladares-Padua C.

Author information: 
(1)Pós-graduação, Departamento de Zoologia, Instituto de Ciências Biológicas,
Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, Brazil.

The black lion tamarin, Leontopithecus chrysopygus, is endemic to the Atlantic
Forest of the interior of the state of São Paulo in Brazil. Since the discovery
of the species, authors have described variations in the pelage of L.
chrysopygus, but the nature of this variation has remained unknown. We examined
museum specimens and living animals to see if the pelage of L. chrysopygus varies
individually, geographically or ontogenetically. We reviewed all known locality
records of the species, and concluded that the pelage of L. chrysopygus varies
individually and ontogenetically, but not geographically. The extent of the
golden chromogenetic fields is larger in younger individuals, and the pelage
becomes darker after successive moults. We examined 2 juveniles that presented a 
pelage similar to adult L. caissara. Geographically, there is a clear break in
the phenotypes attributed to L. caissara and L. chrysopygus, precluding clinal
variation and corroborating the specific status of the former. The separation
between these 2 species is coincident with a tectonic fault known as the
'Guapiara lineament', and may have been caused by a recent activation of this
geological formation. We also suggest a historical contact zone between L.
chrysopygus and the marmoset Callithrix aurita in the upper Rio Tietê region.

© 2016 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000450998 
PMID: 27802443  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


965. J Alzheimers Dis. 2017;55(1):101-113.

Acceleration of Amyloidosis by Inflammation in the Amyloid-Beta Marmoset Monkey
Model of Alzheimer's Disease.

Philippens IH(1), Ormel PR(1), Baarends G(1), Johansson M(2), Remarque EJ(1),
Doverskog M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Biomedical Primate Research Centre (BPRC), Rijswijk, the Netherlands.
(2)Umecrine Cognition AB, Karolinska Institute Science Park, Solna, Sweden.

BACKGROUND: The immune system is increasingly mentioned as a potential target for
Alzheimer's disease (AD) treatment.
OBJECTIVE: In the present pilot study, the effect of (neuro)inflammation on
amyloidopathy was investigated in the marmoset monkey, which has potential as an 
AD animal model due to its natural cerebral amyloidosis similar to humans.
METHODS: Six adult/aged marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) were intracranial injected
with amyloid-beta (Aβ) fibrils at three cortical locations in the right
hemisphere. Additionally, in half of the monkeys, lipopolysaccharide (LPS) was
co-injected with the Aβ fibrils and injected in the other hemisphere without Aβ
fibrils. The other three monkeys received phosphate buffered saline instead of
LPS, as a control for the inflammatory state. The effect of inflammation on
amyloidopathy was also investigated in an additional monkey that suffered from
chronic inflammatory wasting syndrome. Mirror histology sections were analyzed to
assess amyloidopathy and immune reaction, and peripheral blood for AD biomarker
expression.
RESULTS: All LPS-injected monkeys showed an early AD immune blood cell expression
profile on CD95 and CD45RA. Two out of three monkeys injected with Aβ and LPS and
the additional monkey, suffering from chronic inflammation, developed plaques.
None of the controls, injected with Aβ only, developed any plaques.
CONCLUSION: This study shows the importance of immune modulation on the
susceptibility for amyloidosis, a hallmark of AD, which offers new perspectives
for disease modifying approaches in AD.

DOI: 10.3233/JAD-160673 
PMCID: PMC5115608
PMID: 27662314  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

