

977. Neuroscience. 2016 Nov 19;337:1-8. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2016.08.056. Epub 
2016 Sep 9.

The middle-aged ovariectomized marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) as a model of
menopausal symptoms: Preliminary evidence.

Gervais NJ(1), Viechweg SS(2), Mong JA(2), Lacreuse A(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences, University of Massachusetts,
Amherst, MA, USA. Electronic address: ngervais@cns.umass.edu.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, University of Maryland School of Medicine,
Baltimore, MD, USA.
(3)Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences, University of Massachusetts,
Amherst, MA, USA.

Menopausal women often suffer from hot flashes and sleep disturbances that
significantly impact their quality of life. Both human and animal studies suggest
that loss of estrogens during menopause contribute to these symptoms. In the
female rat, both core body temperature (CBT) and sleep are sensitive to
17β-estradiol (E2) levels, but important differences between the rat and the
human patterns limit the interpretation of the results. The sleep and
thermoregulation of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) more closely
resemble human patterns. However, no study to date has examined whether E2
influences sleep and thermoregulation in this species. The main goal of the
present study was to investigate the suitability of the ovariectomized (OVX)
marmoset for studying two major menopausal symptoms experienced by women, sleep
disturbance and thermodysregulation. Two middle-aged OVX marmosets (6years old)
were implanted with a telemeter that records electroencephalograms (EEG),
electromyograms (EMG), and CBT. Sleep patterns and CBT were recorded under
baseline, two E2 replacement (6 and 12μg/kg/day, p.o.) conditions and two E2
withdrawal conditions. Relative to both baseline and withdrawal, high E2
replacement was associated with lower nighttime CBT. In addition, fewer nighttime
arousals were observed under low E2 replacement compared to baseline. Higher
delta power was observed under both E2 replacement conditions suggesting enhanced
sleep quality. These preliminary results suggest that E2 modulates sleep and
thermoregulation in the OVX marmoset, making it a promising model for studying
menopausal symptoms.

Copyright © 2016 IBRO. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2016.08.056 
PMID: 27619737  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


978. Am J Phys Anthropol. 2016 Nov;161(3):478-493. doi: 10.1002/ajpa.23052. Epub 2016 
Jul 19.

Dental remains of cebid platyrrhines from the earliest late Miocene of Western
Amazonia, Peru: Macroevolutionary implications on the extant capuchin and
marmoset lineages.

Marivaux L(1), Adnet S(2), Altamirano-Sierra AJ(3), Pujos F(4), Ramdarshan A(2), 
Salas-Gismondi R(3), Tejada-Lara JV(3)(5), Antoine PO(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire de Paléontologie, Institut des Sciences de l'Évolution de
Montpellier (ISE-M, UMR 5554, CNRS/UM/IRD/EPHE), c.c. 064, Université de
Montpellier, F-34095 Montpellier, Cedex 05, France.
laurent.marivaux@umontpellier.fr.
(2)Laboratoire de Paléontologie, Institut des Sciences de l'Évolution de
Montpellier (ISE-M, UMR 5554, CNRS/UM/IRD/EPHE), c.c. 064, Université de
Montpellier, F-34095 Montpellier, Cedex 05, France.
(3)Departamento de Paleontología de Vertebrados, Museo de Historia
Natural-Universidad Nacional Mayor San Marcos (MUSM), Lima 11, Peru.
(4)Instituto Argentino de Nivología, Glaciología y Ciencias Ambientales
(IANIGLA), CCT-CONICET-Mendoza, Mendoza, 5500, Argentina.
(5)Columbia University in the City of New York and Division of Vertebrate
Paleontology, American Museum of Natural History, New York, NY, 10024.

OBJECTIVES: Undoubted fossil Cebidae have so far been primarily documented from
the late middle Miocene of Colombia, the late Miocene of Brazilian Amazonia, the 
early Miocene of Peruvian Amazonia, and very recently from the earliest Miocene
of Panama. The evolutionary history of cebids is far from being well-documented, 
with notably a complete blank in the record of callitrichine stem lineages until 
and after the late middle Miocene (Laventan SALMA). Further documenting their
evolutionary history is therefore of primary importance.
MATERIAL: Recent field efforts in Peruvian Amazonia (Contamana area, Loreto
Department) have allowed for the discovery of an early late Miocene (ca. 11 Ma;
Mayoan SALMA) fossil primate-bearing locality (CTA-43; Pebas Formation). In this 
study, we analyze the primate material, which consists of five isolated teeth
documenting two distinct Cebidae: Cebus sp., a medium-sized capuchin (Cebinae),
and Cebuella sp., a tiny marmoset (Callitrichinae).
RESULTS: Although limited, this new fossil material of platyrrhines contributes
to documenting the post-Laventan evolutionary history of cebids, and besides
testifies to the earliest occurrences of the modern Cebuella and Cebus/Sapajus
lineages in the Neotropics. Regarding the evolutionary history of callitrichine
marmosets, the discovery of an 11 Ma-old fossil representative of the modern
Cebuella pushes back by at least 6 Ma the age of the Mico/Cebuella divergence
currently proposed by molecular biologists (i.e., ca. 4.5 Ma). This also extends 
back to > 11 Ma BP the divergence between Callithrix and the common ancestor (CA)
of Mico/Cebuella, as well as the divergence between the CA of marmosets and
Callimico (Goeldi's callitrichine).
DISCUSSION: This discovery from Peruvian Amazonia implies a deep evolutionary
root of the Cebuella lineage in the northwestern part of South America (the
modern western Amazon basin), slightly before the recession of the Pebas
mega-wetland system (PMWS), ca. 10.5 Ma, and well-before the subsequent
establishment of the Amazon drainage system (ca. 9-7 Ma). During the late
middle/early late Miocene interval, the PMWS was seemingly not a limiting factor 
for dispersals and widespread distribution of terrestrial mammals, but it was
also likely a source of diversification via a complex patchwork of
submerged/emerged lands varying through time.

© 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.23052 
PMID: 27430626  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

