

978. Am J Phys Anthropol. 2016 Nov;161(3):478-493. doi: 10.1002/ajpa.23052. Epub 2016 
Jul 19.

Dental remains of cebid platyrrhines from the earliest late Miocene of Western
Amazonia, Peru: Macroevolutionary implications on the extant capuchin and
marmoset lineages.

Marivaux L(1), Adnet S(2), Altamirano-Sierra AJ(3), Pujos F(4), Ramdarshan A(2), 
Salas-Gismondi R(3), Tejada-Lara JV(3)(5), Antoine PO(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire de Paléontologie, Institut des Sciences de l'Évolution de
Montpellier (ISE-M, UMR 5554, CNRS/UM/IRD/EPHE), c.c. 064, Université de
Montpellier, F-34095 Montpellier, Cedex 05, France.
laurent.marivaux@umontpellier.fr.
(2)Laboratoire de Paléontologie, Institut des Sciences de l'Évolution de
Montpellier (ISE-M, UMR 5554, CNRS/UM/IRD/EPHE), c.c. 064, Université de
Montpellier, F-34095 Montpellier, Cedex 05, France.
(3)Departamento de Paleontología de Vertebrados, Museo de Historia
Natural-Universidad Nacional Mayor San Marcos (MUSM), Lima 11, Peru.
(4)Instituto Argentino de Nivología, Glaciología y Ciencias Ambientales
(IANIGLA), CCT-CONICET-Mendoza, Mendoza, 5500, Argentina.
(5)Columbia University in the City of New York and Division of Vertebrate
Paleontology, American Museum of Natural History, New York, NY, 10024.

OBJECTIVES: Undoubted fossil Cebidae have so far been primarily documented from
the late middle Miocene of Colombia, the late Miocene of Brazilian Amazonia, the 
early Miocene of Peruvian Amazonia, and very recently from the earliest Miocene
of Panama. The evolutionary history of cebids is far from being well-documented, 
with notably a complete blank in the record of callitrichine stem lineages until 
and after the late middle Miocene (Laventan SALMA). Further documenting their
evolutionary history is therefore of primary importance.
MATERIAL: Recent field efforts in Peruvian Amazonia (Contamana area, Loreto
Department) have allowed for the discovery of an early late Miocene (ca. 11 Ma;
Mayoan SALMA) fossil primate-bearing locality (CTA-43; Pebas Formation). In this 
study, we analyze the primate material, which consists of five isolated teeth
documenting two distinct Cebidae: Cebus sp., a medium-sized capuchin (Cebinae),
and Cebuella sp., a tiny marmoset (Callitrichinae).
RESULTS: Although limited, this new fossil material of platyrrhines contributes
to documenting the post-Laventan evolutionary history of cebids, and besides
testifies to the earliest occurrences of the modern Cebuella and Cebus/Sapajus
lineages in the Neotropics. Regarding the evolutionary history of callitrichine
marmosets, the discovery of an 11 Ma-old fossil representative of the modern
Cebuella pushes back by at least 6 Ma the age of the Mico/Cebuella divergence
currently proposed by molecular biologists (i.e., ca. 4.5 Ma). This also extends 
back to > 11 Ma BP the divergence between Callithrix and the common ancestor (CA)
of Mico/Cebuella, as well as the divergence between the CA of marmosets and
Callimico (Goeldi's callitrichine).
DISCUSSION: This discovery from Peruvian Amazonia implies a deep evolutionary
root of the Cebuella lineage in the northwestern part of South America (the
modern western Amazon basin), slightly before the recession of the Pebas
mega-wetland system (PMWS), ca. 10.5 Ma, and well-before the subsequent
establishment of the Amazon drainage system (ca. 9-7 Ma). During the late
middle/early late Miocene interval, the PMWS was seemingly not a limiting factor 
for dispersals and widespread distribution of terrestrial mammals, but it was
also likely a source of diversification via a complex patchwork of
submerged/emerged lands varying through time.

© 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.23052 
PMID: 27430626  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


979. Brain Res. 2016 Dec 15;1653:23-38. doi: 10.1016/j.brainres.2016.10.012. Epub 2016
Oct 17.

Antisera against Neisseria gonorrhoeae cross-react with specific brain proteins
of the common marmoset monkey and other nonhuman primate species.

Reuss B(1), Asif AR(2), Almamy A(3), Schwerk C(4), Schroten H(4), Ishikawa H(5), 
Drummer C(6), Behr R(6).

Author information: 
(1)Neuroanatomy, University Medical Center Göttingen, Germany. Electronic
address: breuss@gwdg.de.
(2)Clinical Chemistry/UMG-Labs, University Medical Center Göttingen, Germany.
(3)Neuroanatomy, University Medical Center Göttingen, Germany.
(4)Pediatric Infectious Diseases Unit, University of Heidelberg at Mannheim,
Germany.
(5)The Nippon Dental University, Tokyo, Japan.
(6)Platform Degenerative Diseases, German Primate Center, Partner Site Göttingen,
Göttingen, Germany; DZHK (German Center for Cardiovascular Research), Partner
Site Göttingen, Göttingen, Germany.

Prenatal maternal infections with Neisseria gonorrhoeae (NG) correlate with an
increased lifetime probability for the offspring to develop psychosis. We could
previously demonstrate that in human choroid plexus papilloma cells, anti-NG
antibodies (α-NG) bind to mitochondrial proteins HSP60 and ATPB, and interfere
with cellular energy metabolism. To assess the in vivo relevance for this,
especially during prenatal neural development, we investigated here interactions 
of NG-specific antisera (α-NG1, α-NG2) with brain, choroid plexus and other
non-neural tissues in pre- and perinatal samples of the nonhuman primate (NHP)
Callithrix jacchus (CJ), a NHP model for preclinical research. In histological
sections at embryonic day E75, immunohistochemistry revealed α-NG1 and
-2-staining in choroid plexus, ganglionic hill, optic cup, heart, and liver.
Within the cells, organelle-like structures were labeled, which could be
identified by immunohistochemical double-labeling as mitochondria. Both one- and 
two-dimensional Western blot analysis revealed tissue specific patterns of α-NG1 
immunoreactive bands and spots, respectively, which were subsequently
characterized by mass spectrometry. Thereby we could confirm the interactions of 
α-NG1 with human HSP60 and ATPB also in CJ choroid plexus and liver. Even more
important, in the CJ brain, several new targets, including NCAM1, CRMP2, and
SYT1, were identified, which by unrelated studies have been previously suggested 
to correlate with an increased schizophrenia risk. These findings support the
idea that the marmoset monkey is a useful NHP model to investigate the role of
maternal bacterial infections during prenatal brain development, and thereby
might improve the understanding of this important aspect of schizophrenia
pathology.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brainres.2016.10.012 
PMID: 27765579  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

