

979. Brain Res. 2016 Dec 15;1653:23-38. doi: 10.1016/j.brainres.2016.10.012. Epub 2016
Oct 17.

Antisera against Neisseria gonorrhoeae cross-react with specific brain proteins
of the common marmoset monkey and other nonhuman primate species.

Reuss B(1), Asif AR(2), Almamy A(3), Schwerk C(4), Schroten H(4), Ishikawa H(5), 
Drummer C(6), Behr R(6).

Author information: 
(1)Neuroanatomy, University Medical Center Göttingen, Germany. Electronic
address: breuss@gwdg.de.
(2)Clinical Chemistry/UMG-Labs, University Medical Center Göttingen, Germany.
(3)Neuroanatomy, University Medical Center Göttingen, Germany.
(4)Pediatric Infectious Diseases Unit, University of Heidelberg at Mannheim,
Germany.
(5)The Nippon Dental University, Tokyo, Japan.
(6)Platform Degenerative Diseases, German Primate Center, Partner Site Göttingen,
Göttingen, Germany; DZHK (German Center for Cardiovascular Research), Partner
Site Göttingen, Göttingen, Germany.

Prenatal maternal infections with Neisseria gonorrhoeae (NG) correlate with an
increased lifetime probability for the offspring to develop psychosis. We could
previously demonstrate that in human choroid plexus papilloma cells, anti-NG
antibodies (α-NG) bind to mitochondrial proteins HSP60 and ATPB, and interfere
with cellular energy metabolism. To assess the in vivo relevance for this,
especially during prenatal neural development, we investigated here interactions 
of NG-specific antisera (α-NG1, α-NG2) with brain, choroid plexus and other
non-neural tissues in pre- and perinatal samples of the nonhuman primate (NHP)
Callithrix jacchus (CJ), a NHP model for preclinical research. In histological
sections at embryonic day E75, immunohistochemistry revealed α-NG1 and
-2-staining in choroid plexus, ganglionic hill, optic cup, heart, and liver.
Within the cells, organelle-like structures were labeled, which could be
identified by immunohistochemical double-labeling as mitochondria. Both one- and 
two-dimensional Western blot analysis revealed tissue specific patterns of α-NG1 
immunoreactive bands and spots, respectively, which were subsequently
characterized by mass spectrometry. Thereby we could confirm the interactions of 
α-NG1 with human HSP60 and ATPB also in CJ choroid plexus and liver. Even more
important, in the CJ brain, several new targets, including NCAM1, CRMP2, and
SYT1, were identified, which by unrelated studies have been previously suggested 
to correlate with an increased schizophrenia risk. These findings support the
idea that the marmoset monkey is a useful NHP model to investigate the role of
maternal bacterial infections during prenatal brain development, and thereby
might improve the understanding of this important aspect of schizophrenia
pathology.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brainres.2016.10.012 
PMID: 27765579  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


980. J Neurophysiol. 2016 Dec 1;116(6):2789-2798. doi: 10.1152/jn.00474.2016. Epub
2016 Oct 5.

Spontaneous activity is correlated with coding density in primary auditory
cortex.

Bender DA(1)(2), Ni R(1), Barbour DL(3).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Sensory Neuroscience and Neuroengineering, Department of
Biomedical Engineering, Washington University in St. Louis, St. Louis, Missouri; 
and.
(2)Department of Biology, Washington University in St. Louis, St. Louis,
Missouri.
(3)Laboratory of Sensory Neuroscience and Neuroengineering, Department of
Biomedical Engineering, Washington University in St. Louis, St. Louis, Missouri; 
and dbarbour@biomed.wustl.edu.

Sensory neurons across sensory modalities and specific processing areas have
diverse levels of spontaneous firing rates (SFRs) in the absence of sensory
stimuli. However, the functional significance of this spontaneous activity is not
well-understood. Previous studies in the auditory system have demonstrated that
different levels of spontaneous activity are correlated with a variety of
physiological and anatomic properties, suggesting that neurons with differing
SFRs make unique contributions to the encoding of auditory stimuli. Additionally,
altered SFRs are a correlate of tinnitus, arising in several auditory areas after
exposure to ototoxic substances and noise trauma. In this study, we recorded
single-unit activity from primary auditory cortex of awake marmoset monkeys while
delivering wide-band random-spectrum stimuli and white Gaussian noise (WGN) to
examine any divergences in stimulus encoding properties across SFR classes. We
found that higher levels of spontaneous activity were associated with both higher
levels of activation relative to suppression across a variety of wide-band
stimuli and higher driven rates in response to WGN. Moreover, response latencies 
to WGN were negatively correlated with the level of activation in response to
both stimulus types. These findings are consistent with a novel view of the role 
spontaneous spiking may play during normal stimulus processing in primary
auditory cortex and how it may malfunction in cases of tinnitus.

Copyright © 2016 the American Physiological Society.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00474.2016 
PMCID: PMC5155035
PMID: 27707812  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

