

982. J Parasitol. 2017 Feb;103(1):14-21. doi: 10.1645/16-1. Epub 2016 Oct 20.

Platynosomum illiciens (Trematoda: Dicrocoeliidae) in Captive Black-Tufted
Marmoset Callithrix penicillata (Primates: Cebidae) from Brazil: A Morphometric
Analyses with Taxonomic Comments on Species of Platynosomum from Nonhuman
Primates.

Pinto HA(1), Mati VL(1), Pujoni DG(1), Melo AL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Taxonomia e Biologia de Invertebrados, Departamento de
Parasitologia, Instituto de Ciências Biológicas, Universidade Federal de Minas
Gerais. P.O. Box 486, 30123-970, Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais, Brazil.

The trematodes belonging to the genus Platynosomum are biliary parasites of birds
and mammals (domestic and wildlife) in tropical and subtropical areas of the
globe. Despite several reports on platynosomosis in captive nonhuman primates,
mainly in South America, the taxonomy of species of Platynosomum that infect
these hosts remains confused, and it is not clear whether the species found in
cats is the same that infects nonhuman primates. Because a detailed morphological
study of Platynosomum from nonhuman primates is lacking, in this study we
analyzed specimens of Platynosomum recovered from the biliary system of
Callithrix penicillata kept in captivity in an animal facility. The helminths
were submitted to morphological and morphometric analyses in a light microscope
and measurements of 16 morphological traits were taken. A kernel density
estimation (KDE) was used to estimate density distributions of the measurements
obtained as well as the occurrence of overlap with the ranges of the measurements
known to 2 other species of Platynosomum previously described from South American
marmosets, Platynosomum amazonensis and Platynosomum marmoseti. A principal
component analysis (PCA) was also performed in order to evaluate the position of 
each of the 3 species in the multivariate gradient of morphometric measurements. 
The occurrence of a growth gradient was also evaluated by analysis of correlation
between the measurements. Besides a great morphological variability, all
specimens obtained from marmosets in this study were identified as Platynosomum
illiciens (Braun, 1901). In addition, the published ranges of the measurements of
P. amazonensis and P. marmoseti were completely contained within the ranges found
in this study as revealed by KDE. The PCA did not show the formation of groups,
and the 3 species were distributed along a growth continuum, also corroborated by
correlation analysis. Therefore, P. amazonensis and P. marmoseti are here
synonymized with P. illiciens. The involvement of wildlife hosts to the
epidemiology of feline platynosomosis and implications for its control are
briefly discussed.

DOI: 10.1645/16-1 
PMID: 27762668  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


983. Am J Phys Anthropol. 2017 Jan;162(1):157-169. doi: 10.1002/ajpa.23105. Epub 2016 
Oct 20.

Phylogeny of the jacchus group of Callithrix marmosets based on complete
mitochondrial genomes.

Malukiewicz J(1), Hepp CM(2), Guschanski K(3), Stone AC(4)(5).

Author information: 
(1)School of Life Sciences, Arizona State University, Tempe, Arizona, 85287, USA.
(2)School of Informatics, Computing, and Cyber Systems, Northern Arizona
University, Flagstaff, AZ 86011, USA.
(3)Department of Animal Ecology, Evolutionary Biology Centre, Uppsala University,
Uppsala, Sweden.
(4)School of Human Evolution and Social Change, Arizona State University, Tempe, 
AZ 85287, USA.
(5)Institute of Human Origins, Arizona State University, Tempe, AZ 85287, USA.

OBJECTIVES: Two subgroups make up the marmoset genus Callithrix. The "aurita"
group is composed of two species, whereas evolutionary relationships among the
four species of the "jacchus" group remain unclear. To uncover these
relationships, we first sequenced mitochondrial genomes for C. kuhlii and C.
penicillata to complement data available for congeners. We then constructed a
phylogenetic tree based on mtDNA heavy chain protein coding genes from several
primates to untangle species relationships and estimate divergence times of the
jacchus group.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: MtDNA genomes of C. kuhlii and C. penicillata were Sanger 
sequenced. These Callithrix mitogenomes were combined with other publically
available primate mtDNA genomes. Phylogenies were produced using maximum
likelihood and Bayesian inference. Finally, divergence times within the jacchus
group of marmosets were estimated with Bayesian inference.
RESULTS: In our phylogenetic tree, C. geoffroyi was the sister to all other
jacchus group species, followed by C. kuhlii, while C. jacchus and C. penicillata
diverged most recently. Bayesian inference showed that C. jacchus and C.
penicillata diverged approximately 0.70 MYA and that the jacchus group radiated
approximately 1.30 MYA.
DISCUSSION: Callithrix nuclear and mtDNA phylogenies frequently result in
polytomies and paraphyly. Here, we present a well-supported phylogenetic tree
based on mitochondrial genome sequences, which facilitates the understanding of
the divergence of the jacchus marmosets. Our results demonstrate how
mitochondrial genomes can enrich Callithrix phylogenetic studies by alleviating
some of the difficulties faced by previous mtDNA studies and allow formulation of
hypotheses to test further under larger genomic-scale analyses.

© 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.23105 
PMID: 27762445  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

