

99. mBio. 2021 Aug 31;12(4):e0115321. doi: 10.1128/mBio.01153-21. Epub 2021 Aug 3.

Captive Common Marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) Are Colonized throughout Their
Lives by a Community of Bifidobacterium Species with Species-Specific Genomic
Content That Can Support Adaptation to Distinct Metabolic Niches.

Zhu L(#)(1)(2), Yang Q(#)(2)(3), Suhr Van Haute MJ(#)(2)(3), Kok CR(#)(2)(3),
Gomes-Neto JC(2)(3), Pavlovikj N(2)(4), Pillai R(3), Sinha R(2)(3), Hassenstab
H(1), Mustoe A(1), Moriyama EN(2)(5)(6), Hutkins R(2)(3), French J(1)(2), Benson 
AK(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Nebraska-Omaha, Omaha, Nebraska, USA.
(2)Nebraska Food for Health Center, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, Lincoln,
Nebraska, USA.
(3)Department of Food Science and Technology, University of Nebraska-Lincoln,
Lincoln, Nebraska, USA.
(4)Department of Computer Science and Engineering, University of
Nebraska-Lincoln, Lincoln, Nebraska, USA.
(5)School of Biological Sciences, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, Lincoln,
Nebraska, USA.
(6)Center for Plant Science Innovation, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, Lincoln, 
Nebraska, USA.
(#)Contributed equally

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is an omnivorous New World primate whose
diet in the wild includes large amounts of fruit, seeds, flowers, and a variety
of lizards and invertebrates. Marmosets also feed heavily on tree gums and
exudates, and they have evolved unique morphological and anatomical
characteristics to facilitate gum feeding (gummivory). In this study, we
characterized the fecal microbiomes of adult and infant animals from a captive
population of common marmosets at the Callitrichid Research Center at the
University of Nebraska at Omaha under their normal dietary and environmental
conditions. The microbiomes of adult animals were dominated by species of
Bifidobacterium, Bacteroides, Prevotella, Phascolarctobacterium, Megamonas, and
Megasphaera. Culturing and genomic analysis of the Bifidobacterium populations
from adult animals identified four known marmoset-associated species (B. reuteri,
B. aesculapii, B. myosotis, and B. hapali) and three unclassified taxa of
Bifidobacterium that are phylogenetically distinct. Species-specific quantitative
PCR (qPCR) confirmed that these same species of Bifidobacterium are abundant
members of the microbiome throughout the lives of the animals. Genomic loci in
each Bifidobacterium species encode enzymes to support growth and major marmoset 
milk oligosaccharides during breastfeeding; however, metabolic islands that can
support growth on complex polysaccharide substrates in the diets of captive
adults (pectin, xyloglucan, and xylan), including loci in B. aesculapii that can 
support its unique ability to grow on arabinogalactan-rich tree gums, were
species-specific. IMPORTANCE Bifidobacterium species are recognized as important,
beneficial microbes in the human gut microbiome, and their ability colonize
individuals at different stages of life is influenced by host, dietary,
environmental, and ecological factors, which is poorly understood. The common
marmoset is an emerging nonhuman primate model with a short maturation period,
making this model amenable to study the microbiome throughout a life history.
Features of the microbiome in captive marmosets are also shared with human gut
microbiomes, including abundant populations of Bifidobacterium species. Our
studies show that several species of Bifidobacterium are dominant members of the 
captive marmoset microbiome throughout their life history. Metabolic capacities
in genomes of the marmoset Bifidobacterium species suggest species-specific
adaptations to different components of the captive marmoset diet, including the
unique capacity in B. aesculapii for degradation of gum arabic, suggesting that
regular dietary exposure in captivity may be important for preserving
gum-degrading species in the microbiome.

DOI: 10.1128/mBio.01153-21 
PMCID: PMC8406136
PMID: 34340536  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


100. Brain Struct Funct. 2021 Sep;226(7):2417-2430. doi: 10.1007/s00429-021-02345-1.
Epub 2021 Jul 29.

Volume reduction without neuronal loss in the primate pulvinar complex following 
striate cortex lesions.

Chan JM(1)(2), Worthy KH(1), Rosa MGP(1)(2), Reser DH(2)(3), Atapour N(4)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Neuroscience Program, Biomedicine Discovery
Institute, Monash University, Melbourne, VIC, 3800, Australia.
(2)Australian Research Council, Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain
Function, Monash University Node, Melbourne, VIC, 3800, Australia.
(3)Graduate Entry Medicine Program, Monash Rural Health-Churchill, Churchill,
VIC, 3842, Australia.
(4)Department of Physiology and Neuroscience Program, Biomedicine Discovery
Institute, Monash University, Melbourne, VIC, 3800, Australia.
nafiseh.atapour@monash.edu.
(5)Australian Research Council, Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain
Function, Monash University Node, Melbourne, VIC, 3800, Australia.
nafiseh.atapour@monash.edu.

Lesions in the primary visual cortex (V1) cause extensive retrograde degeneration
in the lateral geniculate nucleus, but it remains unclear whether they also
trigger any neuronal loss in other subcortical visual centers. The inferior
(IPul) and lateral (LPul) pulvinar nuclei have been regarded as part of the
pathways that convey visual information to both V1 and extrastriate cortex. Here,
we apply stereological analysis techniques to NeuN-stained sections of marmoset
brain, in order to investigate whether the volume of these nuclei, and the number
of neurons they comprise, change following unilateral long-term V1 lesions. For
comparison, the medial pulvinar nucleus (MPul), which has no connections with V1,
was also studied. Compared to control animals, animals with lesions incurred
either 6 weeks after birth or in adulthood showed significant LPul volume loss
following long (> 11 months) survival times. However, no obvious areas of
neuronal degeneration were observed. In addition, estimates of neuronal density
in lesioned hemispheres were similar to those in the non-lesioned hemispheres of 
same animals. Our results support the view that, in marked contrast with the
geniculocortical projection, the pulvinar pathway is largely spared from the most
severe long-term effects of V1 lesions, whether incurred in early postnatal or
adult life. This difference can be linked to the more divergent pattern of
pulvinar connectivity to the visual cortex, including strong reciprocal
connections with extrastriate areas. The results also caution against
interpretation of volume loss in brain structures as a marker for neuronal
degeneration.

© 2021. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany,
part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00429-021-02345-1 
PMID: 34324075  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

