

995. Dev Neurobiol. 2017 Mar;77(3):328-353. doi: 10.1002/dneu.22446.

A dimensional approach to modeling symptoms of neuropsychiatric disorders in the 
marmoset monkey.

Oikonomidis L(1)(2), Santangelo AM(1)(2), Shiba Y(1)(2), Clarke FH(1)(2), Robbins
TW(2)(3), Roberts AC(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Development and Neuroscience, University of
Cambridge, Downing Street, Cambridge, CB2 3DY, United Kingdom.
(2)Behavioural and Clinical Neuroscience Institute, University of Cambridge,
Downing Street, CB2 3EB, United Kingdom.
(3)Department of Psychology, University of Cambridge, Downing Street, Cambridge, 
CB2 3EB, United Kingdom.

Some patients suffering from the same neuropsychiatric disorder may have no
overlapping symptoms whilst others may share symptoms common to other distinct
disorders. Therefore, the Research Domain Criteria initiative recognises the need
for better characterisation of the individual symptoms on which to focus
symptom-based treatment strategies. Many of the disorders involve dysfunction
within the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and so the marmoset, due to their highly
developed PFC and small size, is an ideal species for studying the
neurobiological basis of the behavioural dimensions that underlie these
symptoms.Here we focus on a battery of tests that address dysfunction spanning
the cognitive (cognitive inflexibility and working memory), negative valence
(fear generalisation and negative bias) and positive valence (anhedonia) systems 
pertinent for understanding disorders such as ADHD, Schizophrenia, Anxiety,
Depression and OCD. Parsing the separable prefrontal and striatal circuits and
identifying the selective neurochemical modulation (serotonin vs dopamine) that
underlie cognitive dysfunction have revealed counterparts in the clinical domain.
Aspects of the negative valence system have been explored both at individual-
(trait anxiety and genetic variation in serotonin transporter) and circuit-based 
levels enabling the understanding of generalisation processes, negative biases
and differential responsiveness to SSRIs. Within the positive valence system, the
combination of cardiovascular and behavioural measures provides a framework for
understanding motivational, anticipatory and consummatory aspects of anhedonia
and their neurobiological mechanisms. Together, the direct comparison of
experimental findings in marmosets with clinical studies is proving an excellent 
translational model to address the behavioural dimensions and neurobiology of
neuropsychiatric symptoms. © 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. Develop Neurobiol 77:
328-353, 2017.

© 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/dneu.22446 
PMCID: PMC5412688
PMID: 27589556  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


996. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2016 Sep 1;57(11):4536-52. doi: 10.1167/iovs.16-19286.

Is Angiostatin Involved in Physiological Foveal Avascularity?

Böhm MR(1)(2), Hodes F(2), Brockhaus K(2), Hummel S(2), Schlatt S(3), Melkonyan
H(2), Thanos S(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology Clinic for Diseases of the Anterior Segments of
the Eyes, Essen University Hospital, Essen, Germany
(2)Institute of Experimental Ophthalmology, School of Medicine, Westfalian
Wilhelms-University of Münster, Münster, Germany
(3)Centre for Reproductive Medicine and Andrology, Westfalian Wilhelms-University
of Münster, Münster, Germany

Purpose: The primate central retina is characterized by an avascular fovea and
well-defined perifoveal capillary plexus. Neither blood vessels nor their
accompanying astrocytes enter the fovea during any stage of retinal development; 
a balance of angiogenic and angiostatic factors probably maintains foveal
avascularity throughout life. The aim of this study was to identify potentially
angiorepulsive factors involved in the development of the avascular primate
retinal fovea.
Methods: Retinas of newborn, juvenile, and adult Callithrix jacchus and Macaca
fascicularis monkeys and control human retinas were studied to determine the
localization of angiostatin relative to III β-tubulin, glial fibrillary acidic
protein, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), platelet endothelial cell
adhesion molecule-1 (PECAM), and the angiostatin receptor αvβ3-integrin in the
foveal, macular, and peripheral retina. Expression studies were performed using
immunohistochemistry (IHC) on retinal whole-mount and paraffin sections, and
Western blotting on frozen material. The complex network of the main retinal cell
types was identified by IHC of retinal whole mounts.
Results: In general, lifetime expression of angiostatin was found in all retinas.
Colabeling with different markers revealed retinal ganglion cells as the main
source of angiostatin expression in the primate retina, whereas
PECAM-immunopositive blood capillaries expressed the angiostatin receptor
αvβ3-integrin, and capillary-associated astrocytes expressed VEGF.
Conclusions: This study provides the first evidence of angiostatin expression in 
the primate retina; the expression of angiostatin in the avascular foveal region 
and the peripheral retina suggests that angiostatin may play a role in the
regulation of retinal vascularization, providing a possible explanation for the
development and persistence of an avascular fovea.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.16-19286 
PMID: 27583825  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

