

996. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2016 Sep 1;57(11):4536-52. doi: 10.1167/iovs.16-19286.

Is Angiostatin Involved in Physiological Foveal Avascularity?

Böhm MR(1)(2), Hodes F(2), Brockhaus K(2), Hummel S(2), Schlatt S(3), Melkonyan
H(2), Thanos S(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology Clinic for Diseases of the Anterior Segments of
the Eyes, Essen University Hospital, Essen, Germany
(2)Institute of Experimental Ophthalmology, School of Medicine, Westfalian
Wilhelms-University of Münster, Münster, Germany
(3)Centre for Reproductive Medicine and Andrology, Westfalian Wilhelms-University
of Münster, Münster, Germany

Purpose: The primate central retina is characterized by an avascular fovea and
well-defined perifoveal capillary plexus. Neither blood vessels nor their
accompanying astrocytes enter the fovea during any stage of retinal development; 
a balance of angiogenic and angiostatic factors probably maintains foveal
avascularity throughout life. The aim of this study was to identify potentially
angiorepulsive factors involved in the development of the avascular primate
retinal fovea.
Methods: Retinas of newborn, juvenile, and adult Callithrix jacchus and Macaca
fascicularis monkeys and control human retinas were studied to determine the
localization of angiostatin relative to III β-tubulin, glial fibrillary acidic
protein, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), platelet endothelial cell
adhesion molecule-1 (PECAM), and the angiostatin receptor αvβ3-integrin in the
foveal, macular, and peripheral retina. Expression studies were performed using
immunohistochemistry (IHC) on retinal whole-mount and paraffin sections, and
Western blotting on frozen material. The complex network of the main retinal cell
types was identified by IHC of retinal whole mounts.
Results: In general, lifetime expression of angiostatin was found in all retinas.
Colabeling with different markers revealed retinal ganglion cells as the main
source of angiostatin expression in the primate retina, whereas
PECAM-immunopositive blood capillaries expressed the angiostatin receptor
αvβ3-integrin, and capillary-associated astrocytes expressed VEGF.
Conclusions: This study provides the first evidence of angiostatin expression in 
the primate retina; the expression of angiostatin in the avascular foveal region 
and the peripheral retina suggests that angiostatin may play a role in the
regulation of retinal vascularization, providing a possible explanation for the
development and persistence of an avascular fovea.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.16-19286 
PMID: 27583825  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


997. J Exp Biol. 2016 Sep 1;219(Pt 17):2659-72. doi: 10.1242/jeb.140939.

Effects of support diameter and compliance on common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus) gait kinematics.

Young JW(1), Stricklen BM(2), Chadwell BA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy and Neurobiology, Northeast Ohio Medical University
(NEOMED), Rootstown, OH 44272, USA Musculoskeletal Biology Research Focus Area,
NEOMED, Rootstown, OH 44272, USA School of Biomedical Sciences, Kent State
University, Kent, OH 44240, USA jwyoung@neomed.edu.
(2)Department of Anatomy and Neurobiology, Northeast Ohio Medical University
(NEOMED), Rootstown, OH 44272, USA.

Locomotion is precarious in an arboreal habitat, where supports can vary in both 
diameter and level of compliance. Several previous studies have evaluated the
influence of substrate diameter on the locomotor performance of arboreal
quadrupeds. The influence of substrate compliance, however, has been mostly
unexamined. Here, we used a multifactorial experimental design to investigate how
perturbations in both diameter and compliance affect the gait kinematics of
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus; N=2) moving over simulated arboreal substrates. We
used 3D-calibrated video to quantify marmoset locomotion over a horizontal
trackway consisting of variably sized poles (5, 2.5 and 1.25 cm in diameter),
analyzing a total of 120 strides. The central portion of the trackway was either 
immobile or mounted on compliant foam blocks, depending on condition. We found
that narrowing diameter and increasing compliance were both associated with
relatively longer substrate contact durations, though adjustments to diameter
were often inconsistent relative to compliance-related adjustments. Marmosets
also responded to narrowing diameter by reducing speed, flattening center of mass
(CoM) movements and dampening support displacement on the compliant substrate.
For the subset of strides on the compliant support, we found that speed, contact 
duration and CoM amplitude explained >60% of the variation in substrate
displacement over a stride, suggesting a direct performance advantage to these
kinematic adjustments. Overall, our results show that compliant substrates can
exert a significant influence on gait kinematics. Substrate compliance, and not
just support diameter, should be considered a critical environmental variable
when evaluating locomotor performance in arboreal quadrupeds.

© 2016. Published by The Company of Biologists Ltd.

DOI: 10.1242/jeb.140939 
PMID: 27582562  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

