
1. J Med Primatol. 2022 Mar 23. doi: 10.1111/jmp.12580. [Epub ahead of print]

Feasibility of combined upper and lower gastrointestinal endoscopic biopsy in the
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) to evaluate gastrointestinal diseases.

Heilmann RM(1), McIntosh J(1), Acke E(1), Reitemeier S(2), Pfannkuche H(3),
Erdmann S(2), Roedler FS(1), Einspanier A(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department for Small Animals, Veterinary Teaching Hospital, College of
Veterinary Medicine, University of Leipzig, Leipzig, Germany.
(2)Institute of Physiological Chemistry, College of Veterinary Medicine,
University of Leipzig, Leipzig, Germany.
(3)Institute of Veterinary Physiology, College of Veterinary Medicine, University
of Leipzig, Leipzig, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Chronic gastroenteropathies, including gluten sensitivity and
marmoset wasting syndrome, frequently occur in captive colonies of common
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). Early identification and diagnosis of affected
animals are desirable. Endoscopic examination of the colon in marmosets is
described, but the small intestine can harbor significant mucosal lesions not
representing those in the colon. Evaluating the small intestine currently
requires invasive surgical biopsies due to the small patient size, carrying a
risk of severe complications.
METHODS: Endoscopic intubation and multisite biopsy of the duodenum/proximal
jejunum are demonstrated in 10 marmosets under general anesthesia.
RESULTS: Esophagogastroduodenoscopy with colonoscopy efficiently aid in examining
the gastrointestinal tract and obtaining an antemortem histologic diagnosis in
marmosets with chronic gastrointestinal signs.
CONCLUSIONS: This minimally invasive technique is feasible in marmosets. Future
investigations into the pathogenesis of chronic gastroenteropathies will benefit 
from these data, leading to improved animal welfare and better individual and
colony health management.

© 2022 The Authors. Journal of Medical Primatology published by John Wiley & Sons
Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jmp.12580 
PMID: 35322434 

