

1008. J Virol. 2016 Sep 29;90(20):9153-62. doi: 10.1128/JVI.01051-16. Print 2016 Oct
15.

Acute Liver Damage Associated with Innate Immune Activation in a Small Nonhuman
Primate Model of Hepacivirus Infection.

Manickam C(1), Rajakumar P(2), Wachtman L(3), Kramer JA(3), Martinot AJ(1),
Varner V(1), Giavedoni LD(4), Reeves RK(5).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Virology and Vaccine Research, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical
Center, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(2)Yerkes National Primate Research Center, Emory University, Atlanta, Georgia,
USA.
(3)New England Primate Research Center, Harvard Medical School, Southborough
Campus, Southborough, Massachusetts, USA.
(4)Southwest National Primate Research Center, Texas Biomedical Research
Institute, San Antonio, Texas, USA.
(5)Center for Virology and Vaccine Research, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical
Center, Boston, Massachusetts, USA New England Primate Research Center, Harvard
Medical School, Southborough Campus, Southborough, Massachusetts, USA
rreeves@bidmc.harvard.edu.

Despite its importance in shaping adaptive immune responses, viral clearance, and
immune-based inflammation, tissue-specific innate immunity remains poorly
characterized for hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection due to the lack of access to 
acutely infected tissues. In this study, we evaluated the impact of natural
killer (NK) cells and myeloid (mDCs) and plasmacytoid (pDCs) dendritic cells on
control of virus replication and virus-induced pathology caused by another, more 
rapidly resolving hepacivirus, GB virus B (GBV-B), in infections of common
marmosets. High plasma and liver viral loads and robust hepatitis characterized
acute GBV-B infection, and while viremia was generally cleared by 2 to 3 months
postinfection, hepatitis and liver fibrosis persisted after clearance. Coinciding
with peak viral loads and liver pathology, the levels of NK cells, mDCs, and pDCs
in the liver increased up to 3-fold. Although no obvious numerical changes in
peripheral innate cells occurred, circulating NK cells exhibited increased
perforin and Ki67 expression levels and increased surface expression of CXCR3.
These data suggested that increased NK cell arming and proliferation as well as
tissue trafficking may be associated with influx into the liver during acute
infection. Indeed, NK cell frequencies in the liver positively correlated with
plasma (R = 0.698; P = 0.015) and liver (R = 0.567; P = 0.057) viral loads.
Finally, soluble factors associated with NK cells and DCs, including gamma
interferon (IFN-γ) and RANTES, were increased in acute infection and also were
associated with viral loads and hepatitis. Collectively, the findings showed that
mobilization of local and circulating innate immune responses was linked to acute
virus-induced hepatitis, and potentially to resolution of GBV-B infection, and
our results may provide insight into similar mechanisms in HCV
infection.IMPORTANCE: Hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection has created a global
health crisis, and despite new effective antivirals, it is still a leading cause 
of liver disease and death worldwide. Recent evidence suggests that innate
immunity may be a potential therapeutic target for HCV, but it may also be a
correlate of increased disease. Due to a lack of access to human tissues with
acute HCV infection, in this study we evaluated the role of innate immunity in
resolving infection with a hepacivirus, GBV-B, in common marmosets. Collectively,
our data suggest that NK cell and DC mobilization in acute hepacivirus infection 
can dampen virus replication but also regulate acute and chronic liver damage.
How these two opposing effects on the host may be modulated in future therapeutic
and vaccine approaches warrants further study.

Copyright © 2016, American Society for Microbiology. All Rights Reserved.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.01051-16 
PMCID: PMC5044824
PMID: 27489267  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

