

1011. Dev Neurobiol. 2017 Mar;77(3):263-272. doi: 10.1002/dneu.22425. Epub 2016 Sep 4.

The marmoset: An emerging model to unravel the evolution and development of the
primate neocortex.

Homman-Ludiye J(1), Bourne JA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Australian Regenerative Medicine Institute, Monash University, Clayton, VIC,
3800, Australia.

Throughout evolution, the neocortex has undergone a dramatic expansion providing 
the substrate for increasingly complex cognitive abilities, culminating with
humans. The enlargement of the neocortex did not affect its' basic organization, 
which is remarkably conserved from rodents to primates. The mouse has thus proven
an advantageous model to decipher the molecular and cellular mechanisms
supporting neocortical development. However, it is of limited benefit when
studying the mechanisms leading to the inclusion of higher order association
areas, which form the largest fraction of the primate neocortex. In the quest for
a suitable nonhuman primate model to study the developmental mechanism of
neocortical patterning and expansion, researchers focussed on the Old World
macaque, routinely employed in functional and behavioral studies. However, the
species has many limitations making studies difficult and/or impractical.
Therefore, in the past couple of decades, the New World common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus) has drawn much attention and become an accepted model. The
marmoset has the advantage of a smooth neocortical sheet, enabling the direct
correspondence between developing cortices and the comprehensive map established 
for the adult, with a significant amount of cortical maturation occurring during 
the postnatal period. This review presents the contributions of recent marmoset
studies to our understanding of the mechanisms regulating corticogenesis in a
complex species, the molecular control of neocortical patterning and the
sequential maturation of visual cortical areas while commenting on the future of 
the species in the field. Furthermore, while these new findings are relevant to
developmental biology, in order to understand how new cortical areas have emerged
to expand cognitive abilities, they also represent a foundation for the better
understanding of developmental cognitive disorders. © 2016 Wiley Periodicals,
Inc. Develop Neurobiol 77: 263-272, 2017.

© 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/dneu.22425 
PMID: 27479140  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

