

1036. Bioinformatics. 2016 Jun 15;32(12):i369-i377. doi: 10.1093/bioinformatics/btw273.

SHARAKU: an algorithm for aligning and clustering read mapping profiles of deep
sequencing in non-coding RNA processing.

Tsuchiya M(1), Amano K(1), Abe M(1), Seki M(1), Hase S(1), Sato K(1), Sakakibara 
Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biosciences and Informatics, Keio University, Yokohama 161-0031,
Japan.

MOTIVATION: Deep sequencing of the transcripts of regulatory non-coding RNA
generates footprints of post-transcriptional processes. After obtaining sequence 
reads, the short reads are mapped to a reference genome, and specific mapping
patterns can be detected called read mapping profiles, which are distinct from
random non-functional degradation patterns. These patterns reflect the maturation
processes that lead to the production of shorter RNA sequences. Recent
next-generation sequencing studies have revealed not only the typical maturation 
process of miRNAs but also the various processing mechanisms of small RNAs
derived from tRNAs and snoRNAs.
RESULTS: We developed an algorithm termed SHARAKU to align two read mapping
profiles of next-generation sequencing outputs for non-coding RNAs. In contrast
with previous work, SHARAKU incorporates the primary and secondary sequence
structures into an alignment of read mapping profiles to allow for the detection 
of common processing patterns. Using a benchmark simulated dataset, SHARAKU
exhibited superior performance to previous methods for correctly clustering the
read mapping profiles with respect to 5'-end processing and 3'-end processing
from degradation patterns and in detecting similar processing patterns in
deriving the shorter RNAs. Further, using experimental data of small RNA
sequencing for the common marmoset brain, SHARAKU succeeded in identifying the
significant clusters of read mapping profiles for similar processing patterns of 
small derived RNA families expressed in the brain.
AVAILABILITY AND IMPLEMENTATION: The source code of our program SHARAKU is
available at http://www.dna.bio.keio.ac.jp/sharaku/, and the simulated dataset
used in this work is available at the same link. Accession code: The sequence
data from the whole RNA transcripts in the hippocampus of the left brain used in 
this work is available from the DNA DataBank of Japan (DDBJ) Sequence Read
Archive (DRA) under the accession number DRA004502.
CONTACT: yasu@bio.keio.ac.jp
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Supplementary data are available at Bioinformatics
online.

© The Author 2016. Published by Oxford University Press.

DOI: 10.1093/bioinformatics/btw273 
PMCID: PMC4908357
PMID: 27307639  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

