

1045. Am J Primatol. 2016 Sep;78(9):928-36. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22563. Epub 2016 May 25.

Patterns on serpentine shapes elicit visual attention in marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus).

Wombolt JR(1), Caine NG(1).

Author information: 
(1)California State University San Marcos, San Marcos, California.

Given the prevalence of threatening snakes in the evolutionary history, and
modern-day environments of human and nonhuman primates, sensory, and perceptual
abilities that allow for quick detection of, and appropriate response to snakes
are likely to have evolved. Many studies have demonstrated that primates
recognize snakes faster than other stimuli, and it is suggested that the unique
serpentine shape is responsible for its quick detection. However, there are many 
nonthreatening serpentine shapes in the environment (e.g., vines) that are not
threatening; therefore, other cues must be used to distinguish threatening from
benign serpentine objects. In two experiments, we systematically evaluated how
common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) visually attend to specific snake-like
features. In the first experiment, we examined if skin pattern is a cue that
elicits increased visual inspection of serpentine shapes by measuring the amount 
of time the marmosets looked into a blind before, during, and after presentation 
of clay models with and without patterns. The marmosets spent the most time
looking at the objects, both serpentine and triangle, that were etched with
scales, suggesting that something may be uniquely salient about scales in evoking
attention. In contrast, they showed relatively little interest in the unpatterned
serpentine and control (a triangle) stimuli. In experiment 2, we replicated and
extended the results of experiment 1 by adding additional stimulus conditions. We
found that patterns on a serpentine shape generated more inspection than those
same patterns on a triangle shape. We were unable to confirm that a scaled
pattern is unique in its ability to elicit visual interest; the scaled models
elicited similar looking times as line and star patterns. Our data provide a
foundation for future research to examine how snakes are detected and identified 
by primates. Am. J. Primatol. 78:928-936, 2016. © 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

© 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22563 
PMID: 27225979  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

