

1050. Exp Toxicol Pathol. 2016 Jun;68(6):335-43. doi: 10.1016/j.etp.2016.05.002. Epub
2016 May 7.

Morphology and staining behavior of neutrophilic and eosinophilic granulocytes of
the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Bleyer M(1), Curths C(2), Dahlmann F(2), Wichmann J(2), Bauer N(3), Moritz A(3), 
Braun A(4), Knauf S(2), Kaup FJ(5), Gruber-Dujardin E(5).

Author information: 
(1)Pathology Unit, German Primate Center, Leibniz-Institute for Primate Research,
Göttingen, Germany. Electronic address: mbleyer@dpz.eu.
(2)Pathology Unit, German Primate Center, Leibniz-Institute for Primate Research,
Göttingen, Germany; Fraunhofer Institute for Toxicology and Experimental
Medicine, Member of the German Center for Lung Research (DZL), Biomedical
Research in Endstage and Obstructive Lung Disease (BREATH) Research Network,
Member of the Cluster of Excellence Regenerative Biology to Reconstructive
Therapy (REBIRTH), Hannover, Germany.
(3)Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Clinical Pathophysiology and Clinical
Pathology, Justus-Liebig-University Gießen, Germany.
(4)Fraunhofer Institute for Toxicology and Experimental Medicine, Member of the
German Center for Lung Research (DZL), Biomedical Research in Endstage and
Obstructive Lung Disease (BREATH) Research Network, Member of the Cluster of
Excellence Regenerative Biology to Reconstructive Therapy (REBIRTH), Hannover,
Germany.
(5)Pathology Unit, German Primate Center, Leibniz-Institute for Primate Research,
Göttingen, Germany.

Common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) are frequently used as translational animal
models for human diseases. However, a comparative study of cytological and
histochemical detection methods as well as morphometric and ultrastructural
characterization of neutrophils and eosinophils in this species is lacking. Blood
samples of house dust mite sensitized and allergen challenged as well as
lipopolysaccharide (LPS) challenged marmosets were analyzed with different
cytological and histological staining methods. Furthermore, cell size and number 
of nuclear segments were compared between neutrophils and eosinophils. Electron
microscopy was performed to characterize the ultrastructure of granulocytes. Of
all applied cytological stains, three allowed differentiation of eosinophils and 
neutrophils and, thus, reliable quantification in blood smears:
May-Grünwald-Giemsa stain, Congo Red and Naphthol AS-D Chloroacetate-Esterase.
For histology, Hematoxylin-Eosin (H&E) could not demonstrate clear differences,
whereas Sirius Red, Congo Red, and Naphthol AS-D Chloroacetate Esterase showed
capable results for identification of eosinophils or neutrophils in lung tissue. 
Morphometry revealed that marmoset neutrophils have more nuclear segments and are
slightly larger than eosinophils. Ultrastructurally, eosinophils presented with
large homogeneous electron-dense granules without crystalloid cores, while
neutrophils were characterized by heterogeneous granules of different size and
density. Additionally, sombrero-like vesicles were detected in tissue eosinophils
of atopic marmosets, indicative for hypersensitivity-related piecemeal
degranulation. In conclusion, we provide a detailed overview of marmoset
eosinophils and neutrophils, important for phenotypic characterization of
marmoset models for human airway diseases.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.etp.2016.05.002 
PMID: 27165445  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

