

1066. CNS Neurol Disord Drug Targets. 2016;15(5):578-86.

Psycho-Cognitive Intervention for ASD from Cross-Species Behavioral Analyses of
Infants, Chicks and Common Marmosets.

Koshiba M(1), Karino G, Mimura K, Nakamura S, Yui K, Kunikata T, Yamanouchi H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Faculty of Medicine, Saitama Medical University, 38 
Morohongo, Moroyama-cho, Iruma-gun, 350-0495 Saitama, Japan.
koshiba@saitama-med.ac.jp.

Educational treatment to support social development of children with autism
spectrum disorder (ASD) is an important topic in developmental psychiatry.
However, it remains difficult to objectively quantify the socio-emotional
development of ASD children. To address this problem, we developed a novel
analytical method that assesses subjects' complex behaviors using multivariate
analysis, 'Behavior Output analysis for Quantitative Emotional State Translation'
(BOUQUET). Here, we examine the potential for psycho-cognitive ASD therapy based 
on comparative evaluations of clinical (human) and experimental (animal) models. 
Our observations of ASD children (vs. their normally developing siblings) and the
domestic chick in socio-sensory deprivation models show the importance of
unimodal sensory stimulation, particularly important for tactile- and
auditory-biased socialization. Identifying psycho-cognitive elements in early
neural development, human newborn infants in neonatal intensive care unit as well
as a New World monkey, the common marmoset, also prompted us to focus on the
development of voluntary movement against gravity. In summary, striking
behavioral similarities between children with ASD and domestic chicks'
socio-sensory deprivation models support the role of multimodal sensory-motor
integration as a prerequisite step for normal development of socio-emotional and 
psycho-cognitive functions. Data obtained in the common marmoset model also
suggest that switching from primitive anti-gravity reflexes to complex voluntary 
movement may be a critical milestone for psycho-cognitive development. Combining 
clinical findings with these animal models, and using multivariate integrative
analyses may facilitate the development of effective interventions to improve
social functions in infants and in children with neurodevelopmental disorders.

DOI: 10.2174/1871527315666160413121613 
PMID: 27071788  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

