

1076. Anim Behav. 2016 Apr 1;114:69-79.

Inequity aversion strategies between marmosets are influenced by partner
familiarity and sex but not oxytocin.

Mustoe AC(1), Harnisch AM(2), Hochfelder B(2), Cavanaugh J(1), French JA(3).

Author information: 
(1)Callitrichid Research Center, University of Nebraska Omaha, Omaha, NE, USA;
Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska Omaha, Omaha, NE, USA.
(2)Callitrichid Research Center, University of Nebraska Omaha, Omaha, NE, USA.
(3)Callitrichid Research Center, University of Nebraska Omaha, Omaha, NE, USA;
Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska Omaha, Omaha, NE, USA;
Department of Biology, University of Nebraska Omaha, Omaha, NE, USA.

Cooperation among individuals depends, in large part, on a sense of fairness.
Many cooperating non-human primates (NHPs) show inequity aversion, (i.e.,
negative responses to unequal outcomes), and these responses toward inequity
likely evolved as a means to preserve the advantages of cooperative
relationships. However, marmosets (Callithrix spp.) tend to show little or no
inequity aversion, despite the high occurrence of prosociality and
cooperative-breeding in callitrichid monkeys. Oxytocin [OXT] has been implicated 
in a wide variety of social processes, but little is known about whether OXT
modulates inequity aversion toward others. We used a tray pulling task to
evaluate whether marmosets would donate superior rewards to their long-term
pairmate or an opposite-sex stranger following OXT, OXT antagonist, and saline
treatments. We found that marmosets show inequity aversion, and this inequity
aversion is socially- and sex-specific. Male marmosets show inequity aversion
toward their pairmates but not strangers, and female marmosets do not show
inequity aversion. OXT treatments did not significantly influence inequity
aversion in marmosets. While OXT may modulate prosocial preferences, the
motivations underlying cooperative relationships, such as inequity aversion, are 
multifaceted. More research is needed to evaluate the evolutionary origins,
biological processes, and social contexts that influence complex phenotypes like 
inequity aversion. Inequity aversion can differ within species in important and
distinct ways including between individuals who do and do not share a cooperative
relationship. Overall, these findings support the view that inequity aversion is 
an important behavioural strategy for the maintenance of cooperative
relationships.

DOI: 10.1016/j.anbehav.2016.01.025 
PMCID: PMC4802974
PMID: 27019514 

