

1080. Neuropsychopharmacology. 2016 Aug;41(9):2366-76. doi: 10.1038/npp.2016.41. Epub
2016 Mar 21.

Novel Primate Model of Serotonin Transporter Genetic Polymorphisms Associated
with Gene Expression, Anxiety and Sensitivity to Antidepressants.

Santangelo AM(1)(2), Ito M(3), Shiba Y(1), Clarke HF(1)(2), Schut EH(4),
Cockcroft G(1)(2), Ferguson-Smith AC(3), Roberts AC(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Development and Neuroscience, University of
Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.
(2)Behavioural and Clinical Neuroscience Institute, University of Cambridge,
Cambridge, UK.
(3)Department of Genetics, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.
(4)Brain Center Rudolf Magnus, Department of Translational Neuroscience,
University Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht, The Netherlands.

Genetic polymorphisms in the repeat upstream region of the serotonin transporter 
gene (SLC6A4) are associated with individual differences in stress reactivity,
vulnerability to affective disorders, and response to pharmacotherapy. However,
the molecular, neurodevelopmental and psychopharmacological mechanisms underlying
the link between SLC6A4 polymorphisms and the emotionally vulnerable phenotype
are not fully understood. Thus, using the marmoset monkey Callithrix jacchus we
characterize here a new neurobiological model to help to address these questions.
We first sequenced the marmoset SLC6A4 promoter and identified a double
nucleotide polymorphism (-2053AC/CT) and two single-nucleotide polymorphisms
(-2022C/T and -1592G/C) within the repeat upstream region. We showed their
association with gene expression using in vivo quantitative PCR and with
affective behavior using a primate test of anxiety (human intruder test). The
low-expressing haplotype (AC/C/G) was linked with high anxiety while the
high-expressing one (CT/T/C) was associated with an active coping strategy in
response to threat. Pharmacological challenge with an acute dose of the selective
serotonin reuptake inhibitor, citalopram, revealed a genotype-dependent
behavioral response. While individuals homozygous for the high anxiety-related
haplotype AC/C/G exhibited a dose-dependent, anxiogenic response, individuals
homozygous for the low anxiety-related haplotype CT/T/C showed an opposing,
dose-dependent anxiolytic effect. These findings provide a novel genetic and
behavioral primate model to study the molecular, neurodevelopmental, and
psychopharmacological mechanisms that underlie genetic variation-associated
complex behaviors, with specific implications for the understanding of normal and
abnormal serotonin actions and the development of personalized pharmacological
treatments for psychiatric disorders.

DOI: 10.1038/npp.2016.41 
PMCID: PMC4946067
PMID: 26997299  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

