

1090. Primates. 2016 Apr;57(2):279-87. doi: 10.1007/s10329-016-0520-8. Epub 2016 Feb
27.

Clinical, hematological, biochemical, and ultrasonographic aspects of
Platynosomum sp. (Trematoda: Dicrocoeliidae) infection of captive Callithrix
penicillata.

Mattioli MP(1), Batista Jdos S(1), Ferrari M(2), Paludo GR(3), Dias CA(4), Hoppe 
EG(5), da Rocha GC(3), Monteiro RV(6)(7).

Author information: 
(1)Hospital Veterinário, Faculdade de Agronomia e Medicina Veterinária,
Universidade de Brasília, Brasília, DF, Brazil.
(2)Serviço de Ultrassonografia, Hospital Veterinário, Faculdade de Agronomia e
Medicina Veterinária, Universidade de Brasília, Brasília, DF, Brazil.
(3)Faculdade de Agronomia e Medicina Veterinária, Universidade de Brasília,
Brasília, DF, Brazil.
(4)Centro de Primatologia, Universidade de Brasília, Brasília, DF, Brazil.
(5)Faculdade de Medicina Veterinária, UNESP Jaboticabal, Jaboticabal, SP, Brazil.
(6)Faculdade de Agronomia e Medicina Veterinária, Universidade de Brasília,
Brasília, DF, Brazil. rvmonteiro@unb.br.
(7)Hospital Veterinário, Faculdade de Agronomia e Medicina Veterinária,
Universidade de Brasília, Av. L4 Norte/Asa Norte, Brasília, DF, 70910-900,
Brazil. rvmonteiro@unb.br.

Trematodes from the genus Platynosomum have been found to infect Neotropical
primates in captivity, but little is known about their pathogeny in such hosts.
This study evaluated the physiological effects of natural infection by the
liver-dwelling trematode Platynosomum sp. in ten males and ten females of
Callithrix penicillata kept in captivity at the Primate Center of the University 
of Brasília. The marmosets were examined twice, 6 months apart. The following
parameters were analyzed: complete blood count, bleeding time, serum total
protein, albumin, and the liver enzymes AST and ALT, and both a stool analysis
and a liver ultrasonic evaluation were performed. We were able to characterize a 
group of abnormalities associated with this trematode infection which were mainly
derived from the hepatitis caused by it: coagulation disorders, abnormal red
blood cells, hypoalbuminemia, and abnormal levels of liver-linked serum enzymes. 
Eosinophilia and thrombocytopenia were also commonly seen. All of the
aforementioned abnormalities were in good accord with typical effects of
trematodes on liver parenchyma. We suggest that this set of abnormalities is
characteristic of the infection of C. penicillata with Platynosomum sp., and
should be among the most prominent aspects that the veterinary surgeon considers 
when suspecting such an infection. We also suggest that these clinical signs and 
abnormalities will be similar in other liver-dwelling trematode-infected primate 
species.

DOI: 10.1007/s10329-016-0520-8 
PMID: 26922567  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

