

1094. Appl Anim Behav Sci. 2016 Jan;174:128-136.

The long-term impact of infant rearing background on the affective state of adult
common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Ash H(1), Buchanan-Smith HM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Behaviour and Evolution Research Group and Scottish Primate Research Group,
Psychology, School of Natural Sciences, University of Stirling, Scotland, United 
Kingdom.

Early life environment, including temporary family separation, can have a major
influence on affective state. Using a battery of tests, the current study
compared the performance of adult common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus), reared
as infants under 3 different conditions: family-reared twins, family-reared
animals from triplet litters where only 2 remain (2stays) and supplementary fed
triplets. No significant differences were found in latency to approach and obtain
food from a human or a novel object between rearing conditions, suggesting no
effect on neophobia. There were no differences in cognitive bias task acquisition
time, or proportion of responses to each ambiguous probe. Very minor differences 
were found in response to the probes, with only supplementary fed marmosets
making fewer responses to the middle probe, compared to the probe nearest the
rewarded stimuli. Similarly, in a test for anhedonia, no difference was found
between rearing conditions in consumption of milkshake at different
concentrations. There was just one very small difference in reward motivation,
with only supplementary fed triplets demonstrating a lack of preference for
milkshake over water at the lowest concentration. This consistent pattern of
results suggests that the supplementary feeding of large litters of marmosets at 
this facility did not have a major effect on welfare, and is unlikely to
influence performance in reward-related scientific tasks. Therefore, while family
separation is not recommended, this particular practice should be used if it is
necessary, such as to reduce infant mortality. Regular positive interactions with
humans are also encouraged, to reduce fear and improve welfare of marmosets kept 
in captivity.

DOI: 10.1016/j.applanim.2015.10.009 
PMCID: PMC4727505
PMID: 26912940 

