

111. Front Immunol. 2021 Jun 18;12:683026. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2021.683026. eCollection
2021.

Microglial Morphology Across Distantly Related Species: Phylogenetic,
Environmental and Age Influences on Microglia Reactivity and Surveillance States.

Carvalho-Paulo D(1), Bento Torres Neto J(1)(2), Filho CS(1), de Oliveira TCG(1), 
de Sousa AA(1), Dos Reis RR(1), Dos Santos ZA(1), de Lima CM(1), de Oliveira
MA(1), Said NM(1), Freitas SF(1), Sosthenes MCK(1), Gomes GF(1), Henrique EP(3), 
Pereira PDC(3), de Siqueira LS(3), de Melo MAD(3), Guerreiro Diniz C(3),
Magalhães NGM(3), Diniz JAP(4), Vasconcelos PFDC(5)(6), Diniz DG(1)(4), Anthony
DC(7), Sherry DF(8), Brites D(9)(10), Picanço Diniz CW(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Investigações em Neurodegeneração e Infecção, Instituto de
Ciências Biológicas, Hospital Universitário João de Barros Barreto, Universidade 
Federal do Pará, Belém, Brazil.
(2)Faculdade de Fisioterapia e Terapia Ocupacional, Universidade Federal do Pará,
Belém, Brazil.
(3)Laboratório de Biologia Molecular e Neuroecologia, Instituto Federal de
Educação Ciência e Tecnologia do Pará, Bragança, Brazil.
(4)Laboratório de Microscopia Eletrônica, Instituto Evandro Chagas, Belém,
Brazil.
(5)Dep. de Arbovirologia e Febres Hemorrágicas, Instituto Evandro Chagas, Belém, 
Brazil.
(6)Departamento de Patologia, Universidade do Estado do Pará, Belém, Brazil.
(7)Department of Pharmacology, University of Oxford, Oxford, United Kingdom.
(8)Department of Psychology, Advanced Facility for Avian Research, University of 
Western Ontario, London, ON, Canada.
(9)Research Institute for Medicines (iMed.ULisboa), Faculty of Pharmacy,
Universidade de Lisboa, Lisbon, Portugal.
(10)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences and Medicines, Faculty of Pharmacy,
Universidade de Lisboa, Lisbon, Portugal.

Microglial immunosurveillance of the brain parenchyma to detect local
perturbations in homeostasis, in all species, results in the adoption of a
spectrum of morphological changes that reflect functional adaptations. Here, we
review the contribution of these changes in microglia morphology in distantly
related species, in homeostatic and non-homeostatic conditions, with three
principal goals (1): to review the phylogenetic influences on the morphological
diversity of microglia during homeostasis (2); to explore the impact of
homeostatic perturbations (Dengue virus challenge) in distantly related species
(Mus musculus and Callithrix penicillata) as a proxy for the differential immune 
response in small and large brains; and (3) to examine the influences of
environmental enrichment and aging on the plasticity of the microglial
morphological response following an immunological challenge (neurotropic
arbovirus infection). Our findings reveal that the differences in microglia
morphology across distantly related species under homeostatic condition cannot be
attributed to the phylogenetic origin of the species. However, large and small
brains, under similar non-homeostatic conditions, display differential microglial
morphological responses, and we argue that age and environment interact to affect
the microglia morphology after an immunological challenge; in particular, mice
living in an enriched environment exhibit a more efficient immune response to the
virus resulting in earlier removal of the virus and earlier return to the
homeostatic morphological phenotype of microglia than it is observed in sedentary
mice.

Copyright © 2021 Carvalho-Paulo, Bento Torres Neto, Filho, de Oliveira, de Sousa,
dos Reis, dos Santos, de Lima, de Oliveira, Said, Freitas, Sosthenes, Gomes,
Henrique, Pereira, de Siqueira, de Melo, Guerreiro Diniz, Magalhães, Diniz,
Vasconcelos, Diniz, Anthony, Sherry, Brites and Picanço Diniz.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2021.683026 
PMCID: PMC8250867
PMID: 34220831  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.

