

1118. Toxicol Rep. 2016;3:29-45.

Sequencing the exposome: A call to action.

Jones DP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Emory University, Atlanta GA 30322 USA.

The exposome is a complement to the genome that includes non-genetic causes of
disease. Multiple definitions are available, with salient points being global
inclusion of exposures and behaviors, and cumulative integration of associated
biologic responses. As such, the concept is both refreshingly simple and
dauntingly complex. This article reviews high-resolution metabolomics (HRM) as an
affordable approach to routinely analyze samples for a broad spectrum of
environmental chemicals and biologic responses. HRM has been successfully used in
multiple exposome research paradigms and is suitable to implement in a prototype 
universal exposure surveillance system. Development of such a structure for
systematic monitoring of environmental exposures is an important step toward
sequencing the exposome because it builds upon successes of exposure science,
naturally connects external exposure to body burden and partitions the exposome
into workable components. Practical results would be repositories of quantitative
data on chemicals according to geography and biology. This would support new
opportunities for environmental health analysis and predictive modeling.
Complementary approaches to hasten development of exposome theory and associated 
biologic response networks could include experimental studies with model systems,
analysis of archival samples from longitudinal studies with outcome data and
study of relatively short-lived animals, such as household pets (dogs and cats)
and non-human primates (common marmoset). International investment and
cooperation to sequence the human exposome will advance scientific knowledge and 
also provide an important foundation to control adverse environmental exposures
to sustain healthy living spaces and improve prediction and management of
disease.

DOI: 10.1016/j.toxrep.2015.11.009 
PMCID: PMC4692045
PMID: 26722641 

