

1128. Front Psychiatry. 2015 Nov 30;6:160. doi: 10.3389/fpsyt.2015.00160. eCollection
2015.

Endocrine and Cognitive Adaptations to Cope with Stress in Immature Common
Marmosets (Callithrix jacchus): Sex and Age Matter.

de Sousa MB(1), Galvão AC(2), Sales CJ(2), de Castro DC(2), Galvão-Coelho NL(3).

Author information: 
(1)Brain Institute, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Norte , Natal , Brazil.
(2)Graduate Program in Psychobiology, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Norte
, Natal , Brazil.
(3)Department of Physiology, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Norte , Natal 
, Brazil.

Phenotypic sex differences in primates are associated with body differentiation
during the early stages of life, expressed in both physiological and behavioral
features. Hormones seem to play a pivotal role in creating a range of responses
to meet environmental and social demands, resulting in better reactions to cope
with challenges to survival and reproduction. Steroid hormones actively
participate in neuroplasticity and steroids from both gonads and neurons seem to 
be involved in behavioral modulation in primates. Indirect evidence suggests the 
participation of sexual steroids in dimorphism of the stress response in common
marmosets. This species is an important experimental model in psychiatry, and we 
found a dual profile for cortisol in the transition from juvenile to subadult,
with females showing higher levels. Immature males and females at 6 and 9 months 
of age moved alone from the family group to a new cage, over a 21-day period,
expressed distinct patterns of cortisol variation with respect to range and
duration of response. Additional evidence showed that at 12 months of age, males 
and females buffered the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis during chronic
stress. Moreover, chronic stressed juvenile marmoset males showed better
cognitive performance in working memory tests and motivation when compared to
those submitted to short-term stress living in family groups. Thus, as cortisol
profile seems to be sexually dimorphic before adulthood, age and sex are critical
variables to consider in approaches that require immature marmosets in their
experimental protocols. Moreover, available cognitive tests should be scrutinized
to allow better investigation of cognitive traits in this species.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyt.2015.00160 
PMCID: PMC4663272
PMID: 26648876 

