

1129. Neurosci Res. 2016 May;106:55-61. doi: 10.1016/j.neures.2015.11.006. Epub 2015
Nov 28.

α-Synuclein aggregation in the olfactory bulb of middle-aged common marmoset.

Kobayashi R(1), Takahashi-Fujigasaki J(2), Shiozawa S(3), Hara-Miyauchi C(4),
Inoue T(5), Okano HJ(4), Sasaki E(6), Okano H(7).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, Shinjuku, Tokyo,
Japan.
(2)Department of Neuropathology, Brain Bank for Aging Research, Tokyo
Metropolitan Institute of Gerontology, Itabashi-ku, Tokyo, Japan.
(3)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, Shinjuku, Tokyo,
Japan; RIKEN Brain Science Institute Laboratory for Marmoset Neural Architecture,
Wako-shi, Saitama, Japan.
(4)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, Shinjuku, Tokyo,
Japan; Division of Regenerative Medicine, Jikei University School of Medicine,
Minato-ku, Tokyo, Japan.
(5)Central Institute for Experimental Animals, Kawasaki, Kanagawa, Japan.
(6)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, Shinjuku, Tokyo,
Japan; RIKEN Brain Science Institute Laboratory for Marmoset Neural Architecture,
Wako-shi, Saitama, Japan; Central Institute for Experimental Animals, Kawasaki,
Kanagawa, Japan.
(7)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, Shinjuku, Tokyo,
Japan. Electronic address: hidokano@a2.keio.jp.

The synaptic protein α-synuclein has been identified as a major component of Lewy
bodies, a pathological hallmark of Parkinson's disease (PD). Prior to the
formation of Lewy bodies, mislocalization and aggregation of the α-synuclein in
brain tissue is frequently observed in various neurodegenerative diseases.
Aberrant accumulation and localization of α-synuclein are also observed in the
aging human brain, for which reason aging is regarded as a risk factor for
neurodegenerative disease. To investigate changes in α-synuclein properties in
the aging brain, we compared α-synuclein immunoreactivity in brain tissue of
young (2-years-old) and middle-aged (6-years-old) common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus). Our analyses revealed marked changes in α-synuclein immunoreactivity in
the olfactory bulb of common marmosets of these age cohorts. Perikaryal
α-synuclein aggregations were formed in the olfactory bulb in middle-aged
animals. We also observed signals of α-synuclein accumulation in hippocampus in
this cohort; however, unlike in the olfactory bulb, hippocampal α-synuclein
signals were localized in the synaptic terminals. We did not observe either of
these features in younger marmosets, which suggest that aging may play a role in 
these phenomena. Our results using common marmoset brain corresponded with the
observation that the α-synuclein aggregations were first occurred from olfactory 
bulb in human normal aged and PD brain. Therefore, common marmoset is expected as
useful model for α-synuclein pathology.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier Ireland Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neures.2015.11.006 
PMID: 26643383  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

