

1130. J Sex Med. 2015 Dec;12(12):2256-66. doi: 10.1111/jsm.13068. Epub 2015 Dec 4.

Flibanserin-Stimulated Partner Grooming Reflects Brain Metabolism Changes in
Female Marmosets.

Converse AK(1), Aubert Y(2)(3), Allers KA(4), Sommer B(4), Abbott DH(2)(5)(6).

Author information: 
(1)Waisman Center, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, USA.
(2)Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin-Madison,
Madison, WI, USA.
(3)Department of Biological and Medical Psychology, University of Bergen, Bergen,
Norway.
(4)Department of CNS Diseases, Boehringer Ingelheim, Biberach, Germany.
(5)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Wisconsin-Madison,
Madison, WI, USA.
(6)Endocrinology-Reproductive Physiology Training Program, University of
Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Female sexual interest and arousal disorder is personally
distressing for women. To better understand the mechanism of the candidate
therapeutic, flibanserin, we determined its effects on an index of brain glucose 
metabolism.
AIM: We hypothesized that chronic treatment with flibanserin would alter
metabolism in brain regions associated with serotonergic function and female
sexual behavior.
METHODS: In a crossover design, eight adult female common marmosets (Calithrix
jacchus) received daily flibanserin or vehicle. After 7-12 weeks of treatment,
the glucose metabolism radiotracer [(18) F]fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) was
administered to each female immediately prior to 30 minutes of interaction with
her male pairmate, after which females were anesthetized and imaged by positron
emission tomography. Whole-brain normalized images were analyzed with
anatomically defined regions of interest. Whole-brain voxelwise mapping was used 
to explore treatment effects. Correlations were examined between alterations in
metabolism and pairmate social grooming.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Changes in metabolism associated with flibanserin were
determined for dorsal raphe, medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), medial preoptic
area of hypothalamus (mPOA), ventromedial nucleus of hypothalamus, and field
cornu ammonis 1 (CA1) of the hippocampus.
RESULTS: In response to chronic flibanserin, metabolism in mPOA declined, and
this reduction correlated with increases in pairmate grooming. A cluster of
voxels in frontal cortico-limbic regions exhibited reduced metabolism in response
to flibanserin and overlapped with a voxel cluster in which reductions in
metabolism correlated with increases in pairmate grooming. Finally, reductions in
mPOA metabolism correlated with increases in metabolism in a cluster of voxels in
somatosensory cortex.
CONCLUSIONS: Taken together, these results suggest that flibanserin-induced
reductions in female mPOA neural activity increase intimate affiliative behavior 
with male pairmates.

© 2015 International Society for Sexual Medicine.

DOI: 10.1111/jsm.13068 
PMCID: PMC5681869
PMID: 26635207  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

