

1138. Am J Primatol. 2016 Feb;78(2):216-26. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22498. Epub 2015 Nov 3.

Scratching under positive and negative arousal in common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus).

Neal SJ(1), Caine NG(1).

Author information: 
(1)California State University San Marcos, San Marcos, California.

Scratching has been widely used as an indicator of anxiety in many primate
species. However, a handful of studies have shown no change in scratching under
anxiety-provoking circumstances. In addition, the existing literature has
investigated scratching only in relation to negative arousal (i.e., anxiety),
even though anxiety and excitement (positive arousal) share important
physiological and behavioral correlates, including increased heart rate, blood
pressure, and locomotion. In the current study, we scored all instances of
scratching in 11 outdoor-housed captive common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus)
during three contexts that were intended to be negatively arousing and three
contexts that were intended to be positively arousing during a baseline,
manipulation, and post-induction period. Summed across the three negative arousal
contexts, the results showed that subjects exhibited significantly lower
scratching rates during the manipulation than during either the baseline or
post-induction periods, and the pattern of means was the same for all three of
those contexts. Under the three contexts of positive arousal, subjects exhibited 
different patterns of scratching rates during the manipulation periods
(play = increases, foraging = decreases, food anticipation = no change). Data
from the current study, and a close examination of data from studies showing no
change in scratching under anxiety-provoking circumstances, suggest that the
anxiety-scratching relationship may be more complex than has been reported
previously. Our results raise a potential concern about the unchallenged use of
scratching as a behavioral indicator of anxiety in captive non-human primates,
with important implications for welfare and management of these species.

© 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22498 
PMID: 26530306  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

