

1146. J Virol. 2015 Oct 28;90(2):725-40. doi: 10.1128/JVI.02431-15. Print 2016 Jan 15.

HIV-1 Adapts To Replicate in Cells Expressing Common Marmoset APOBEC3G and BST2.

Fernández-Oliva A(1), Finzi A(2), Haim H(2), Menéndez-Arias L(1), Sodroski J(3), 
Pacheco B(4).

Author information: 
(1)Centro de Biología Molecular Severo Ochoa, Consejo Superior de Investigaciones
Científicas and Universidad Autónoma de Madrid, Madrid, Spain.
(2)Department of Cancer Immunology and Virology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute,
and Department of Microbiology and Immunobiology, Harvard Medical School, Boston,
Massachusetts, USA.
(3)Department of Cancer Immunology and Virology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute,
and Department of Microbiology and Immunobiology, Harvard Medical School, Boston,
Massachusetts, USA Department of Immunology and Infectious Diseases, Harvard
School of Public Health, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(4)Centro de Biología Molecular Severo Ochoa, Consejo Superior de Investigaciones
Científicas and Universidad Autónoma de Madrid, Madrid, Spain Department of
Cancer Immunology and Virology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, and Department of
Microbiology and Immunobiology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts,
USA b.pacheco.phd@hotmail.com.

Previous studies have shown that a major block to HIV-1 replication in common
marmosets operates at the level of viral entry and that this block can be
overcome by adaptation of the virus in tissue-cultured cells. However, our
current studies indicate that HIV-1 encounters additional postentry blocks in
common marmoset peripheral blood mononuclear cells. Here, we show that the common
marmoset APOBEC3G (A3G) and BST2 proteins block HIV-1 in cell cultures. Using a
directed-evolution method that takes advantage of the natural ability of HIV-1 to
mutate during replication, we have been able to overcome these blocks in
tissue-cultured cells. In the adapted viruses, specific changes were observed in 
gag, vif, env, and nef. The contribution of these changes to virus replication in
the presence of the A3G and BST2 restriction factors was studied. We found that
certain amino acid changes in Vif and Env that arise during adaptation to
marmoset A3G and BST2 allow the virus to replicate in the presence of these
restriction factors. The changes in Vif reduce expression levels and
encapsidation of marmoset APOBEC3G, while the changes in Env increase viral
fitness and discretely favor cell-to-cell transmission of the virus, allowing
viral escape from these restriction factors.IMPORTANCE: HIV-1 can infect only
humans and chimpanzees. The main reason for this narrow tropism is the presence
in many species of dominant-acting factors, known as restriction factors, that
block viral replication in a species-specific way. We have been exploring the
blocks to HIV-1 in common marmosets, with the ultimate goal of developing a new
animal model of HIV-1 infection in these monkeys. In this study, we observed that
common marmoset APOBEC3G and BST2, two known restriction factors, are able to
block HIV-1 in cell cultures. We have adapted HIV-1 to replicate in the presence 
of these restriction factors and have characterized the mechanisms of escape.
These studies can help in the development of a novel animal model for in vivo
infection of marmosets with HIV-1-like viruses.

Copyright © 2015, American Society for Microbiology. All Rights Reserved.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.02431-15 
PMCID: PMC4702673
PMID: 26512082  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

