

115. BMC Ecol Evol. 2021 Jun 25;21(1):132. doi: 10.1186/s12862-021-01848-z.

Vertical clinging and leaping induced evolutionary rate shifts in postcranial
evolution of tamarins and marmosets (Primates, Callitrichidae).

Botton-Divet L(1), Nyakatura JA(2).

Author information: 
(1)AG Vergleichende Zoologie, Institut F체r Biologie, Humboldt-Universit채t Zu
Berlin, Philippstr. 13, 10115, Berlin, Germany. leo.botton-divet@hu-berlin.de.
(2)AG Vergleichende Zoologie, Institut F체r Biologie, Humboldt-Universit채t Zu
Berlin, Philippstr. 13, 10115, Berlin, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Callitrichids comprise a diverse group of platyrrhine monkeys that
are present across South and Central America. Their secondarily evolved small
size and pointed claws allow them to cling to vertical trunks of a large
diameter. Within callitrichids, lineages with a high affinity for vertical
supports often engage in trunk-to-trunk leaping. This vertical clinging and
leaping (VCL) differs from horizontal leaping (HL) in terms of the functional
demands imposed on the musculoskeletal system, all the more so as HL often occurs
on small compliant terminal branches. We used quantified shape descriptors (3D
geometric morphometrics) and phylogenetically-informed analyses to investigate
the evolution of the shape and size of the humerus and femur, and how this
variation reflects locomotor behavior within Callitrichidae.
RESULTS: The humerus of VCL-associated species has a narrower trochlea compared
with HL species. It is hypothesized that this contributes to greater elbow
mobility. The wider trochlea in HL species appears to correspondingly provide
greater stability to the elbow joint. The femur in VCL species has a smaller head
and laterally-oriented distal condyles, possibly to reduce stresses during
clinging. Similarly, the expanded lesser trochanters visible in VCL species
provide a greater lever for the leg retractors and are thus also interpreted as
an adaptation to clinging. Evolutionary rate shifts to faster shape and size
changes of humerus and femur occurred in the Leontocebus clade when a shift to
slower rates occurred in the Saguinus clade.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on the study of evolutionary rate shifts, the transition to
VCL behavior within callitrichids (specifically the Leontocebus clade) appears to
have been an opportunity for radiation, rather than a specialization that imposed
constraints on morphological diversity. The study of the evolution of
callitrichids suffers from a lack of comparative analyses of limb mechanics
during trunk-to-trunk leaping, and future work in this direction would be of
great interest.

DOI: 10.1186/s12862-021-01848-z 
PMCID: PMC8235625
PMID: 34171986  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

