

117. Magn Reson Med. 2021 Nov;86(5):2766-2779. doi: 10.1002/mrm.28881. Epub 2021 Jun
25.

Marmoset brain segmentation from deconvolved magnetic resonance images and
estimated label maps.

Bazzi F(1)(2)(3), Mescam M(2), Diab A(3), Falou O(3), Amoud H(3), Basarab A(1),
Kouamé D(1).

Author information: 
(1)Computer Science Research Institute of Toulouse (IRIT), Toulouse University
UPS, CNRS, UMR, Toulouse, France.
(2)Centre de Recherche Cerveau et Cognition (CerCo), Université de Toulouse UPS, 
CNRS, UMR, Toulouse, France.
(3)Doctoral School of Sciences and Technology, AZM Center for Research in
Biotechnology and Its Applications, Lebanese University, Beirut, Lebanon.

PURPOSE: The proposed method aims to create label maps that can be used for the
segmentation of animal brain MR images without the need of a brain template. This
is achieved by performing a joint deconvolution and segmentation of the brain MR 
images.
METHODS: It is based on modeling locally the image statistics using a generalized
Gaussian distribution (GGD) and couples the deconvolved image and its
corresponding labels map using the GGD-Potts model. Because of the complexity of 
the resulting Bayesian estimators of the unknown model parameters, a Gibbs
sampler is used to generate samples following the desired posterior probability.
RESULTS: The performance of the proposed algorithm is assessed on simulated and
real MR images by the segmentation of enhanced marmoset brain images into its
main compartments using the corresponding label maps created. Quantitative
assessment showed that this method presents results that are comparable to those 
obtained with the classical method-registering the volumes to a brain template.
CONCLUSION: The proposed method of using labels as prior information for brain
segmentation provides a similar or a slightly better performance compared with
the classical reference method based on a dedicated template.

© 2021 International Society for Magnetic Resonance in Medicine.

DOI: 10.1002/mrm.28881 
PMID: 34170032  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

