

1173. Braz J Infect Dis. 2015 Sep-Oct;19(5):479-85. doi: 10.1016/j.bjid.2015.06.012.
Epub 2015 Aug 21.

Fluorescent antibody test, quantitative polymerase chain reaction pattern and
clinical aspects of rabies virus strains isolated from main reservoirs in Brazil.

Appolinário C(1), Allendorf SD(1), Vicente AF(1), Ribeiro BD(1), Fonseca CR(1),
Antunes JM(1), Peres MG(1), Kotait I(2), Carrieri ML(3), Megid J(4).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Higiene Veterinária e Saúde Pública, Faculdade de Medicina
Veterinária e Zootecnia, Universidade Estadual Paulista (UNESP), Botucatu, SP,
Brazil.
(2)Instituto Biológico de São Paulo, São Paulo, SP, Brazil.
(3)Secção de Raiva, Instituto Butantan, Secretaria da Saúde, São Paulo, SP,
Brazil.
(4)Departamento de Higiene Veterinária e Saúde Pública, Faculdade de Medicina
Veterinária e Zootecnia, Universidade Estadual Paulista (UNESP), Botucatu, SP,
Brazil. Electronic address: jane@fmvz.unesp.br.

Rabies virus (RABV) isolated from different mammals seems to have unique
characteristics that influence the outcome of infection. RABV circulates in
nature and is maintained by reservoirs that are responsible for the persistence
of the disease for almost 4000 years. Considering the different pattern of
pathogenicity of RABV strains in naturally and experimentally infected animals,
the aim of this study was to analyze the characteristics of RABV variants
isolated from the main Brazilian reservoirs, being related to a dog (variant 2), 
Desmodus rotundus (variant 3), crab eating fox, marmoset, and Myotis spp. Viral
replication in brain tissue of experimentally infected mouse was evaluated by two
laboratory techniques and the results were compared to clinical evolution from
five RABV variants. The presence of the RABV was investigated in brain samples by
fluorescent antibody test (FAT) and real time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR)
for quantification of rabies virus nucleoprotein gene (N gene). Virus replication
is not correlated with clinical signs and evolution. The pattern of FAT is
associated with RABV replication levels. Virus isolates from crab eating fox and 
marmoset had a longer evolution period and higher survival rate suggesting that
the evolution period may contribute to the outcome. RABV virus variants had
independent characteristics that determine the clinical evolution and survival of
the infected mice.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Editora Ltda. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bjid.2015.06.012 
PMID: 26303004  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

