

1192. Antiviral Res. 2015 Oct;122:28-38. doi: 10.1016/j.antiviral.2015.07.005. Epub
2015 Jul 17.

Animal models of Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus infection.

van Doremalen N(1), Munster VJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Virology, Division of Intramural Research, National Institute of
Allergy and Infectious Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Hamilton, MT,
USA.
(2)Laboratory of Virology, Division of Intramural Research, National Institute of
Allergy and Infectious Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Hamilton, MT,
USA. Electronic address: Vincent.munster@nih.gov.

The emergence of the Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV) in
2012 marked the second time that a new, highly pathogenic coronavirus has emerged
in the human population in the 21st century. In this review, we discuss the
current state of knowledge of animal models of MERS-CoV infection. Commonly used 
laboratory animal species such as Syrian hamsters, mice and ferrets are not
susceptible to MERS-CoV, due to differences in the MERS-CoV receptor dipeptidyl
peptidase 4 (DPP4). The initially developed animal models comprise two nonhuman
primate species, the rhesus macaque and the common marmoset. Rhesus macaques
develop a mild to moderate respiratory disease upon inoculation, reminiscent of
milder MERS cases, whereas marmosets develop a moderate to severe respiratory
disease, recapitulating the severe disease observed in some patients. Dromedary
camels, considered to be the reservoir for MERS-CoV, develop a mild upper
respiratory tract infection with abundant viral shedding. Although normal mice
are not susceptible to MERS-CoV, expression of the human DPP4 (hDPP4) overcomes
the lack of susceptibility. Transgenic hDPP4 mice develop severe and lethal
respiratory disease upon inoculation with MERS-CoV. These hDPP4 transgenic mice
are potentially the ideal first line animal model for efficacy testing of
therapeutic and prophylactic countermeasures. Further characterization of
identified countermeasures would ideally be performed in the common marmoset
model, due to the more severe disease outcome. This article forms part of a
symposium in Antiviral Research on "From SARS to MERS: research on highly
pathogenic human coronaviruses."

Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.antiviral.2015.07.005 
PMCID: PMC4561025
PMID: 26192750  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

