

120. Commun Biol. 2021 Jun 15;4(1):739. doi: 10.1038/s42003-021-02256-1.

Lévy walk dynamics explain gamma burst patterns in primate cerebral cortex.

Liu Y(#)(1)(2), Long X(#)(1)(2), Martin PR(2)(3)(4), Solomon SG(5), Gong P(6)(7).

Author information: 
(1)School of Physics, University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW, Australia.
(2)ARC Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain Function, University of Sydney,
Sydney, NSW, Australia.
(3)Discipline of Physiology, University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW, Australia.
(4)Save Sight Institute, University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW, Australia.
(5)Department of Experimental Psychology, University College London, London, UK.
(6)School of Physics, University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW, Australia.
pulin.gong@sydney.edu.au.
(7)ARC Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain Function, University of Sydney,
Sydney, NSW, Australia. pulin.gong@sydney.edu.au.
(#)Contributed equally

Lévy walks describe patterns of intermittent motion with variable step sizes. In 
complex biological systems, Lévy walks (non-Brownian, superdiffusive random
walks) are associated with behaviors such as search patterns of animals foraging 
for food. Here we show that Lévy walks also describe patterns of oscillatory
activity in primate cerebral cortex. We used a combination of empirical
observation and modeling to investigate high-frequency (gamma band) local field
potential activity in visual motion-processing cortical area MT of marmoset
monkeys. We found that gamma activity is organized as localized burst patterns
that propagate across the cortical surface with Lévy walk dynamics. Lévy walks
are fundamentally different from either global synchronization, or regular
propagating waves, because they include large steps that enable activity patterns
to move rapidly over cortical modules. The presence of Lévy walk dynamics
therefore represents a previously undiscovered mode of brain activity, and
implies a novel way for the cortex to compute. We apply a biophysically realistic
circuit model to explain that the Lévy walk dynamics arise from critical-state
transitions between asynchronous and localized propagating wave states, and that 
these dynamics yield optimal spatial sampling of the cortical sheet. We
hypothesise that Lévy walk dynamics could help the cortex to efficiently process 
variable inputs, and to find links in patterns of activity among sparsely spiking
populations of neurons.

DOI: 10.1038/s42003-021-02256-1 
PMCID: PMC8206356
PMID: 34131276  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

