

1201. PLoS One. 2015 Jul 6;10(7):e0131742. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0131742.
eCollection 2015.

Susceptibility of Marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) to Monkeypox Virus: A Low Dose
Prospective Model for Monkeypox and Smallpox Disease.

Mucker EM(1), Chapman J(2), Huzella LM(3), Huggins JW(4), Shamblin J(4), Robinson
CG(5), Hensley LE(3).

Author information: 
(1)Virology Division, United States Army Medical Research Institute of Infectious
Diseases, Fort Detrick, Maryland, United States of America; Tulane University
School of Medicine, New Orleans, Louisianna, United States of America.
(2)Joint Pathology Center, Silver Spring, Maryland, United States of America.
(3)Integrated Research Facility, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious
Diseases, Fort Detrick, Maryland, United States of America.
(4)Virology Division, United States Army Medical Research Institute of Infectious
Diseases, Fort Detrick, Maryland, United States of America.
(5)Pathology Division, United States Army Medical Research Institute of
Infectious Diseases, Fort Detrick, Maryland, United States of America.

Although current nonhuman primate models of monkeypox and smallpox diseases
provide some insight into disease pathogenesis, they require a high titer
inoculum, use an unnatural route of infection, and/or do not accurately represent
the entire disease course. This is a concern when developing smallpox and/or
monkeypox countermeasures or trying to understand host pathogen relationships. In
our studies, we altered half of the test system by using a New World nonhuman
primate host, the common marmoset. Based on dose finding studies, we found that
marmosets are susceptible to monkeypox virus infection, produce a high viremia,
and have pathological features consistent with smallpox and monkeypox in humans. 
The low dose (48 plaque forming units) required to elicit a uniformly lethal
disease and the extended incubation (preclinical signs) are unique features among
nonhuman primate models utilizing monkeypox virus. The uniform lethality,
hemorrhagic rash, high viremia, decrease in platelets, pathology, and abbreviated
acute phase are reflective of early-type hemorrhagic smallpox.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0131742 
PMCID: PMC4492619
PMID: 26147658  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

