

1202. Behav Brain Res. 2015 Oct 1;292:323-6. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2015.06.006. Epub 2015 
Jun 29.

Indifference of marmosets with prenatal valproate exposure to third-party
non-reciprocal interactions with otherwise avoided non-reciprocal individuals.

Yasue M(1), Nakagami A(1), Banno T(2), Nakagaki K(2), Ichinohe N(3), Kawai N(4).

Author information: 
(1)Graduate School of Information Science, Nagoya University, Japan; Department
of Ultrastructural Research, National Institute of Neuroscience, National Center 
of Neurology and Psychiatry (NCNP), Japan.
(2)Department of Ultrastructural Research, National Institute of Neuroscience,
National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry (NCNP), Japan.
(3)Department of Ultrastructural Research, National Institute of Neuroscience,
National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry (NCNP), Japan; Ichinohe Neural System
Group, Lab for Molecular Analysis of Higher Brain Functions RIKEN BSI, Japan.
Electronic address: nichino@ncnp.go.jp.
(4)Graduate School of Information Science, Nagoya University, Japan; Department
of Ultrastructural Research, National Institute of Neuroscience, National Center 
of Neurology and Psychiatry (NCNP), Japan. Electronic address:
kawai@is.nagoya-u.ac.jp.

Autism is characterized by deficits in social interaction and social recognition.
Although animal models of autism have demonstrated that model animals engage less
in social interaction or attend less to conspecifics than control animals, no
animal model has yet replicated the deficit in recognition of complex social
interaction as is seen in humans with autism. Here, we show that marmosets
discriminated between human actors who reciprocated in social exchanges and those
who did not; however, marmosets with foetal exposure to valproic acid (VPA
marmosets) did not. In the reciprocal condition, two actors exchanged food
equally, while in the non-reciprocal condition, one actor (non-reciprocator)
ended up with all food and the other actor with none. After observing these
exchanges, the control marmosets avoided receiving food from the non-reciprocator
in the non-reciprocal condition. However, the VPA marmosets did not show
differential preferences in either condition, suggesting that the VPA marmosets
did not discriminate between reciprocal and non-reciprocal interactions. These
results indicate that normal marmosets can evaluate social interaction between
third-parties, while the VPA marmosets are unable to recognize whether an
individual is being reciprocal or not. This test battery can serve as a useful
tool to qualify primate models of autism.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2015.06.006 
PMID: 26133500  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

