

1207. Sci Rep. 2015 Jun 19;5:10950. doi: 10.1038/srep10950.

High-field functional magnetic resonance imaging of vocalization processing in
marmosets.

Sadagopan S(1), Temiz-Karayol NZ(1), Voss HU(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Neural Systems, The Rockefeller University, New York, NY 10065.
(2)Department of Radiology and Citigroup Biomedical Imaging Center, Weill Cornell
Medical College, New York, NY 10021.

Vocalizations are behaviorally critical sounds, and this behavioral importance is
reflected in the ascending auditory system, where conspecific vocalizations are
increasingly over-represented at higher processing stages. Recent evidence
suggests that, in macaques, this increasing selectivity for vocalizations might
culminate in a cortical region that is densely populated by
vocalization-preferring neurons. Such a region might be a critical node in the
representation of vocal communication sounds, underlying the recognition of
vocalization type, caller and social context. These results raise the questions
of whether cortical specializations for vocalization processing exist in other
species, their cortical location, and their relationship to the auditory
processing hierarchy. To explore cortical specializations for vocalizations in
another species, we performed high-field fMRI of the auditory cortex of a vocal
New World primate, the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). Using a sparse
imaging paradigm, we discovered a caudal-rostral gradient for the processing of
conspecific vocalizations in marmoset auditory cortex, with regions of the
anterior temporal lobe close to the temporal pole exhibiting the highest
preference for vocalizations. These results demonstrate similar cortical
specializations for vocalization processing in macaques and marmosets, suggesting
that cortical specializations for vocal processing might have evolved before the 
lineages of these species diverged.

DOI: 10.1038/srep10950 
PMCID: PMC4473644
PMID: 26091254  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

