

1213. Exp Hematol. 2015 Oct;43(10):901-911.e4. doi: 10.1016/j.exphem.2015.06.001. Epub 
2015 Jun 12.

Improved hematopoietic differentiation of primate embryonic stem cells by
inhibition of the PI3K-AKT pathway under defined conditions.

Nii T(1), Marumoto T(1), Kohara H(2), Yamaguchi S(1), Kawano H(1), Sasaki E(3),
Kametani Y(4), Tani K(5).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Molecular and Clinical Genetics, Department of Molecular Genetics,
Medical Institute of Bioregulation, Kyushu University, Fukuoka, Japan.
(2)Division of Molecular and Clinical Genetics, Department of Molecular Genetics,
Medical Institute of Bioregulation, Kyushu University, Fukuoka, Japan; Project
Division of ALA Advanced Medical Research, The Institute of Medical Science, The 
University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan.
(3)Central Institute for Experimental Animals, Kawasaki, Kanagawa, Japan.
(4)Department of Molecular Life Science, Tokai University School of Medicine,
Isehara, Kanagawa, Japan.
(5)Division of Molecular and Clinical Genetics, Department of Molecular Genetics,
Medical Institute of Bioregulation, Kyushu University, Fukuoka, Japan; Project
Division of ALA Advanced Medical Research, The Institute of Medical Science, The 
University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan. Electronic address: k-tani@ims.u-tokyo.ac.jp.

Hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells (HSPCs) derived from embryonic stem cells
(ESCs) and induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) have potential therapeutic
applications in humans. To assess the safety and efficacy of ESC/iPSC-based
therapies, reliable animal models are required prior to their clinical
application. The common marmoset (CM) was recently found to be a useful nonhuman 
primate animal model for drug development and safety assessment. However, a
method for the efficient hematopoietic differentiation of CM ESCs has not been
established. In this study, we developed a novel and efficient method for
differentiating CM ESCs into hematopoietic cells by transiently inhibiting the
phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K)-Protein kinase B (AKT) pathway, a critical
pathway that maintains the undifferentiated state of CM ESCs during embryoid body
(EB) formation. Compared with controls, transient inhibition of the P13K-AKT
pathway resulted in a threefold increase in the proportion of enriched CD34⁺
cells (p < 0.001) and an increase in the number of hematopoietic colonies on day 
8 of CM EB cultures. Moreover, number of blast colonies, number of hematopoietic 
progenitor cell populations of CD34⁺CD117⁺, CD34⁺CD45⁺, and CD43⁺CD45⁺ cells, and
expression of hematopoietic genes were increased by transient inhibition of the
PI3K-AKT pathway. We also demonstrated that the hematopoietic progenitor cell
population was increased by inhibition of PI3K in a human system. Our novel and
efficient ESC differentiation method might be useful for preclinical research on 
human hematopoietic disorders and may be efficiently translated to human
ESC/iPSC-based regenerative medicine.

Copyright © 2015 ISEH - International Society for Experimental Hematology.
Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exphem.2015.06.001 
PMID: 26073521  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

