

1216. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 10;10(6):e0127268. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0127268.
eCollection 2015.

Natural and Anthropogenic Hybridization in Two Species of Eastern Brazilian
Marmosets (Callithrix jacchus and C. penicillata).

Malukiewicz J(1), Boere V(2), Fuzessy LF(3), Grativol AD(4), de Oliveira E Silva 
I(5), Pereira LC(6), Ruiz-Miranda CR(4), Valença YM(7), Stone AC(8).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Bioquímica e Biologia Molecular, Universidade Federal de
Viçosa, Viçosa MG, Brazil; School of Human Evolution and Social Change, Arizona
State University, Tempe, Arizona, 85287, United States of America.
(2)Departamento de Bioquímica e Biologia Molecular, Universidade Federal de
Viçosa, Viçosa MG, Brazil.
(3)Department of Plant Biology, Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, Belo
Horizonte MG, Brazil.
(4)Ciências Ambientias, Centro de Biociências e Biotecnologia, Universidade
Estadual do Norte Fluminense, Campos dos Goytacazes RJ, Brazil.
(5)Departamento de Biologia Animal, Universidade Federal de Viçosa, Viçosa MG,
Brazil.
(6)Centro de Conservação e Manejo de Fauna da Caatinga, Universidade Federal do
Vale do São Francisco, Petrolina PE, Brazil.
(7)Centro de Reabilitação de Animais Silvestres do Santuário dos Três Reinos,
Recife PE, Brazil.
(8)School of Human Evolution and Social Change, Arizona State University, Tempe, 
Arizona, 85287, United States of America.

Animal hybridization is well documented, but evolutionary outcomes and
conservation priorities often differ for natural and anthropogenic hybrids. Among
primates, an order with many endangered species, the two contexts can be hard to 
disentangle from one another, which carries important conservation implications. 
Callithrix marmosets give us a unique glimpse of genetic hybridization effects
under distinct natural and human-induced contexts. Here, we use a 44 autosomal
microsatellite marker panel to examine genome-wide admixture levels and
introgression at a natural C. jacchus and C. penicillata species border along the
São Francisco River in NE Brazil and in an area of Rio de Janeiro state where
humans introduced these species exotically. Additionally, we describe for the
first time autosomal genetic diversity in wild C. penicillata and expand previous
C. jacchus genetic data. We characterize admixture within the natural zone as
bimodal where hybrid ancestry is biased toward one parental species or the other.
We also show evidence that São Francisco River islands are gateways for
bidirectional gene flow across the species border. In the anthropogenic zone,
marmosets essentially form a hybrid swarm with intermediate levels of admixture, 
likely from the absence of strong physical barriers to interspecific breeding.
Our data show that while hybridization can occur naturally, the presence of
physical, even if leaky, barriers to hybridization is important for maintaining
species genetic integrity. Thus, we suggest further study of hybridization under 
different contexts to set well informed conservation guidelines for hybrid
populations that often fit somewhere between "natural" and "man-made."

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0127268 
PMCID: PMC4464756
PMID: 26061111  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

