

1220. J Am Assoc Lab Anim Sci. 2015 May;54(3):273-9.

Advantages and Risks of Husbandry and Housing Changes to Improve Animal Wellbeing
in a Breeding Colony of Common Marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Bakker J(1), Ouwerling B(2), Heidt PJ(2), Kondova I(2), Langermans JA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Animal Science Department, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Rijswijk, The
Netherlands. bakker@bprc.nl.
(2)Animal Science Department, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Rijswijk, The
Netherlands.

Between 1975 and 2014, housing conditions for laboratory-housed marmosets changed
dramatically after the introduction of new guidelines designed to improve their
care and wellbeing. According to these guidelines, our facility provided
marmosets with outside enclosures, switched to deep litter as bedding material,
and discontinued the use of disinfectant agents in animal enclosures. However,
both deep litter and access to outside enclosures hypothetically increase the
risk of potential exposure to pathogenic microorganisms. We evaluated whether
these housing and husbandry modifications constituted an increased veterinary
risk for laboratory-housed common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). After the
animals had been exposed to these new housing conditions for 2.5 y, we examined
their intestinal bacterial flora and feces, the deep litter, and insects present 
in the housing. In addition, we assessed the marmosets' general health and the
effect of outdoor housing on, for example, vitamin D levels. Although numerous
bacterial strains--from nonpathogenic to potentially pathogenic--were cultured,
we noted no increase in illness, mortality, or breeding problems related to this 
environmental microflora. Housing laboratory marmosets in large enriched cages,
with both indoor and outdoor enclosures, providing them with deep litter, and
eliminating the use of disinfectants present an increased veterinary risk.
However, after evaluating all of the collected data, we estimate that the
veterinary risk of the new housing conditions is minimal to none in terms of
clinical disease, disease outbreaks, abnormal behavior, and negative effects on
reproduction.


PMCID: PMC4460939
PMID: 26045452  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

