

1225. Ann Clin Transl Neurol. 2015 May;2(5):581-93. doi: 10.1002/acn3.194. Epub 2015
Mar 18.

The primate autoimmune encephalomyelitis model; a bridge between mouse and man.

't Hart BA(1), van Kooyk Y(2), Geurts JJ(3), Gran B(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, Biomedical Primate Research Centre Rijswijk, The 
Netherlands ; Department Neuroscience, University Medical Center, University of
Groningen Groningen, The Netherlands.
(2)Department of Cell Biology and Immunology, Free University Medical Center
Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(3)Department of Anatomy and Neuroscience, Free University Medical Center
Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(4)Division of Clinical Neuroscience, University of Nottingham School of Medicine
Nottingham, United Kingdom.

INTRODUCTION: Multiple sclerosis (MS) is an enigmatic autoimmune-driven
inflammatory/demyelinating disease of the human central nervous system (CNS),
affecting brain, spinal cord, and optic nerves. The cause of the disease is not
known and the number of effective treatments is limited. Despite some clear
successes, translation of immunological discoveries in the mouse experimental
autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) model into effective therapies for MS patients
has been difficult. This translation gap between MS and its elected EAE animal
model reflects the phylogenetic distance between humans and their experimental
counterpart, the inbred/specific pathogen free (SPF) laboratory mouse.
OBJECTIVE: Here, we discuss that important new insights can be obtained into the 
mechanistic basis of the therapy paradox from the study of nonhuman primate EAE
(NHP-EAE) models, the well-validated EAE model in common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus) in particular.
INTERPRETATION: Data presented in this review demonstrate that due to a
considerable immunological and pathological overlap with mouse EAE on one side
and MS on the other, the NHP EAE model can help us bridge the translation gap.

DOI: 10.1002/acn3.194 
PMCID: PMC4435712
PMID: 26000330 

