

123. PLoS One. 2021 Jun 9;16(6):e0252093. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0252093.
eCollection 2021.

Womb to womb: Maternal litter size and birth weight but not adult characteristics
predict early neonatal death of offspring in the common marmoset monkey.

Rutherford JN(1), Ross CN(2), Ziegler T(3), Burke LA(4), Steffen AD(5), Sills
A(6), Layne Colon D(2), deMartelly VA(7), Narapareddy LR(8), Tardif SD(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Human Development Nursing Science, College of Nursing,
University of Illinois Chicago, Chicago, Illinois, United States of America.
(2)Southwest National Primate Research Center, Texas Biomedical Research
Institute, San Antonio, Texas, United States of America.
(3)Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin, Madison, 
Wisconsin, United States of America.
(4)Office for Research Facilitation, College of Nursing, University of Illinois
Chicago, Chicago, Illinois, United States of America.
(5)Department of Population Health Nursing Science, College of Nursing,
University of Illinois Chicago, Chicago, Illinois, United States of America.
(6)Barshop Institute for Longevity and Aging Studies, University of Texas Health 
Science Center at San Antonio, San Antonio, Texas, United States of America.
(7)Department of Biobehavioral Health Nursing Science, College of Nursing,
University of Illinois Chicago, Chicago, Illinois, United States of America.
(8)Nell Hodgson Woodruff School of Nursing, Emory University, Atlanta, Georgia,
United States of America.

A singular focus on maternal health at the time of a pregnancy leaves much about 
perinatal mortality unexplained, especially when there is growing evidence for
maternal early life effects. Further, lumping stillbirth and early neonatal death
into a single category of perinatal mortality may obscure different causes and
thus different avenues of screening and prevention. The common marmoset monkey
(Callithrix jacchus), a litter-bearing nonhuman primate, is an ideal species in
which to study the independent effects of a mother's early life and adult
phenotypes on pregnancy outcomes. We tested two hypotheses in 59 marmoset
pregnancies at the Southwest National Primate Research Center and the Barshop
Institute for Longevity and Aging Studies. We explored 1) whether pregnancy
outcomes were predicted independently by maternal adult weight versus maternal
litter size and birth weight, and 2) whether stillbirth and early neonatal death 
were differentially predicted by maternal variables. No maternal characteristics 
predicted stillbirth and no maternal adult characteristics predicted early
neonatal death. In univariate Poisson models, triplet-born females had a
significantly increased rate of early neonatal death (IRR[se] = 3.00[1.29], p =
0.011), while higher birth weight females had a decreased rate (IRR[se] =
0.89[0.05], p = 0.039). In multivariate Poisson models, maternal litter size
remained an independent predictor, explaining 13% of the variance in early
neonatal death. We found that the later in the first week those neonates died,
the more weight they lost. Together these findings suggest that triplet-born and 
low birth weight females have distinct developmental trajectories underlying
greater rates of infant loss, losses that we suggest may be attributable to
developmental disruption of infant feeding and carrying. Our findings of early
life contributions to adult pregnancy outcomes in the common marmoset disrupt
mother-blaming narratives of pregnancy outcomes in humans. These narratives hold 
that the pregnant person is solely responsible for pregnancy outcomes and the
health of their children, independent of socioecological factors, a moralistic
framing that has shaped clinical pregnancy management. It is necessary to
differentiate temporal trajectories and causes of perinatal loss and view them as
embedded in external processes to develop screening, diagnostic, and treatment
tools that consider the full arc of a mother's lived experience, from womb to
womb and beyond.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0252093 
PMCID: PMC8189522
PMID: 34106943  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.

