

1230. Int Immunol. 2015 Nov;27(11):567-77. doi: 10.1093/intimm/dxv031. Epub 2015 May
14.

Common marmoset CD117+ hematopoietic cells possess multipotency.

Shimada S(1), Nunomura S(2), Mori S(3), Suemizu H(4), Itoh T(4), Takabayashi
S(5), Okada Y(6), Yahata T(7), Shiina T(1), Katoh H(5), Suzuki R(8), Tani K(9),
Ando K(6), Yagita H(10), Habu S(10), Sasaki E(4), Kametani Y(11).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Life Science, Tokai University School of Medicine,
Isehara, Japan.
(2)Division of Molecular Cell Immunology, Advanced Medical Research Center, Nihon
University Graduate School of Medical Science, Tokyo, Japan.
(3)Department of Molecular Life Science, Tokai University School of Medicine,
Isehara, Japan Department of Hematology, Tokai University School of Medicine,
Isehara, Japan.
(4)Central Institute for Experimental Animals, Kawasaki, Japan.
(5)Experimental Animals Institute, Hamamatsu University School of Medicine,
Shizuoka, Japan.
(6)Support Center for Medical Research and Education, Tokai University School of 
Medicine, Isehara, Japan.
(7)Department of Hematology, Tokai University School of Medicine, Isehara, Japan.
(8)Department of Rheumatology and Clinical Immunology, Clinical Research Center
for Allergy and Rheumatology, Sagamihara National Hospital, National Hospital
Organization, Sagamihara, Japan.
(9)Division of Molecular and Clinical Genetics, Department of Molecular Genetics,
Medical Institute of Bioregulation, Kyushu University, Fukuoka, Japan.
(10)Department of Immunology, Juntendo University School of Medicine, Tokyo,
Japan.
(11)Department of Molecular Life Science, Tokai University School of Medicine,
Isehara, Japan y-kametn@is.icc.u-tokai.ac.jp.

Analysis of the hematopoiesis of non-human primates is important to clarify the
evolution of primate-specific hematopoiesis and immune regulation. However, the
engraftment and development of the primate hematopoietic system are
well-documented only in humans and are not clear in non-human primates.
Callithrix jacchus (common marmoset, CM) is a New World monkey with a high rate
of pregnancy and small size that lives in closed colonies. As stem cell factor
(SCF) is an essential molecule for hematopoietic stem cell development in mice
and humans, we focused on CD117, the SCF receptor, and examined whether
CD117-expressing cells possess the hematopoietic stem/progenitor cell
characteristics of newborn marmoset-derived hematopoietic cells that can develop 
into T cells and B cells. When CD117(+) cell fractions of the bone marrow were
transplanted into immunodeficient NOD (non-obese diabetic)/Shi-scid, common
γc-null (NOG) mice, these cells engrafted efficiently in the bone marrow and
spleens of the NOG mice. The CD117(+) cells developed into myeloid lineage cells,
CD20(+) B cells and CD3(+) T cells, which could express CM cytokines in vivo. The
development of B cells did not precede that of T cells. The development of CD8(+)
T cells was dominant in NOG mice. The engraftment was comparable for both
CD117(+)CD34(+) cells and CD117(+)CD34(-) cells. These results suggest that the
CD117(+) cell fraction can differentiate into all three cell lineages, and the
development of marmoset immunity in the xenogeneic environment follows diverse
developmental pathways compared with human immunity.

© The Japanese Society for Immunology. 2015. All rights reserved. For
permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/intimm/dxv031 
PMID: 25977306  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

