

1235. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 2015 Jul;59(7):4181-9. doi: 10.1128/AAC.00115-15.
Epub 2015 May 4.

A sterilizing tuberculosis treatment regimen is associated with faster clearance 
of bacteria in cavitary lesions in marmosets.

Via LE(1), England K(1), Weiner DM(1), Schimel D(1), Zimmerman MD(2), Dayao E(1),
Chen RY(1), Dodd LE(3), Richardson M(1), Robbins KK(1), Cai Y(1), Hammoud D(4),
Herscovitch P(5), Dartois V(2), Flynn JL(6), Barry CE 3rd(7).

Author information: 
(1)Tuberculosis Research Section, Laboratory of Clinical Infectious Diseases,
National Institute for Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID), National
Institutes of Health (NIH), Bethesda, Maryland, USA.
(2)Public Health Research Institute, New Jersey Medical School, Rutgers, The
State University of New Jersey, Newark, New Jersey, USA.
(3)Biostatistics Research Branch, NIAID, NIH, Bethesda, Maryland, USA.
(4)Center for Infectious Disease Imaging, Radiology and Imaging Sciences, NIH,
Bethesda, Maryland, USA.
(5)Positron Emission Tomography Department, Division of Diagnostic Radiology,
Clinical Center, NIH, Bethesda, Maryland, USA.
(6)Department of Microbiology and Molecular Genetics, University of Pittsburgh
School of Medicine, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA.
(7)Tuberculosis Research Section, Laboratory of Clinical Infectious Diseases,
National Institute for Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID), National
Institutes of Health (NIH), Bethesda, Maryland, USA Institute of Infectious
Disease and Molecular Medicine, Department of Clinical Laboratory Sciences,
University of Cape Town, Cape Town, South Africa cbarry@niaid.nih.gov.

Shortening the lengthy treatment duration for tuberculosis patients is a major
goal of current drug development efforts. The common marmoset develops human-like
disease pathology and offers an attractive model to better understand the basis
for relapse and test regimens for effective shorter duration therapy. We treated 
Mycobacterium tuberculosis-infected marmosets with two drug regimens known to
differ in their relapse rates in human clinical trials: the standard four-drug
combination of isoniazid, rifampin, pyrazinamide, and ethambutol (HRZE) that has 
very low relapse rates and the combination of isoniazid and streptomycin that is 
associated with higher relapse rates. As early as 2 weeks, the more sterilizing
regimen significantly reduced the volume of lung disease by computed tomography
(P = 0.035) and also significantly reduced uptake of
[(18)F]-2-fluoro-2-deoxyglucose by positron emission tomography (P = 0.049).
After 6 weeks of therapy, both treatments caused similar reductions in granuloma 
bacterial load, but the more sterilizing, four-drug regimen caused greater
reduction in bacterial load in cavitary lesions (P = 0.009). These findings,
combined with the association in humans between cavitary disease and relapse,
suggest that the basis for improved sterilizing activity of the four-drug
combination is both its faster disease volume resolution and its stronger
sterilizing effect on cavitary lesions. Definitive data from relapse experiments 
are needed to support this observation.

Copyright © 2015, American Society for Microbiology. All Rights Reserved.

DOI: 10.1128/AAC.00115-15 
PMCID: PMC4468655
PMID: 25941223  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

