

1239. Comp Med. 2015 Apr;65(2):140-3.

Comparative Immunohistochemistry of Placental Corticotropin-Releasing Hormone and
the Transcription Factor RelB-NFκB2 Between Humans and Nonhuman Primates.

Rosen T(1), Schulkin J(2), Power M(3), Tadesse S(4), Norwitz ER(4), Wen Z(5),
Wang B(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics, Gynecology, and Reproductive Sciences, Rutgers
Robert Wood Johnson Medical School, New Brunswick, New Jersey, USA.
rosentj@rwjms.rutgers.edu.
(2)Research Department, American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists,
Washington, District of Columbia, USA; Department of Neuroscience, Georgetown
University, Washington, District of Columbia, USA.
(3)Nutrition Laboratory, Conservation Ecology Center, Smithsonian Conservation
Biology Institute, National Zoological Park, Washington, District of Columbia,
USA.
(4)Tufts University School of Medicine, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, 
Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(5)Department of Pathology, Saint Peter's University Hospital, New Brunswick, New
Jersey, USA.
(6)Department of Obstetrics, Gynecology, and Reproductive Sciences, Rutgers
Robert Wood Johnson Medical School, New Brunswick, New Jersey, USA.
wangbi@rwjms.rutgers.edu.

The transcription factor RelB-NFκB2, activated by the noncanonical NFκB pathway, 
positively regulates corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) and prostaglandin
production in the term human placenta and may play an important role in the
timing of human parturition. Here we explored whether RelB-NFκB2 signaling plays 
a role in parturition in nonhuman anthropoid primates. We performed
immunohistochemical staining to assess the correlation between CRH and nuclear
activity of RelB-NFκB2 heterodimers in term placentas from humans, 3 catarrhine
primate species, and a single platyrrhine primate species. Consistent with our
previous studies, the human placenta showed cytoplasmic staining for CRH and
nuclear staining for RelB-NFκB2. Similar staining patterns were noted in the 3
catarrhine primates (chimpanzee, baboon, and rhesus macaque). The platyrrhine
(marmoset) placentas stained positively for CRH and RelB but not for NFκB2.
Catarrhine (but not platyrrhine) nonhuman primate term placentas demonstrate the 
same CRH staining and nuclear localization patterns of RelB and NFκB2 as does
human placenta. These results suggest that catarrhine primates, particularly
rhesus macaques, may serve as useful animal models to study the biologic
significance of the noncanonical NFκB pathway in human pregnancy.


PMCID: PMC4408900
PMID: 25926400  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

