

1263. PLoS One. 2015 Mar 23;10(3):e0119651. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0119651.
eCollection 2015.

De novo origin of VCY2 from autosome to Y-transposed amplicon.

Cao PR(1), Wang L(1), Jiang YC(2), Yi YS(1), Qu F(1), Liu TC(1), Lv Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Medical College of Hunan Normal University,
Changsha, China.
(2)The State Key Laboratory of Genetic Engineering and MOE Key Laboratory of
Contemporary Anthropology School of Life Sciences, Fudan University, Shanghai,
China.

The formation of new genes is a primary driving force of evolution in all
organisms. The de novo evolution of new genes from non-protein-coding genomic
regions is emerging as an important additional mechanism for novel gene creation.
Y chromosomes underlie sex determination in mammals and contain genes that are
required for male-specific functions. In this study, a search was undertaken for 
Y chromosome de novo genes derived from non-protein-coding sequences. The Y
chromosome orphan gene variable charge, Y-linked (VCY)2, is an autosome-derived
gene that has sequence similarity to large autosomal fragments but lacks an
autosomal protein-coding homolog. VCY2 locates in the amplicon containing long
DNA fragments that were transposed from autosomes to the Y chromosome before the 
ape-monkey split. We confirmed that VCY2 cannot be encoded by autosomes due to
the presence of multiple disablers that disrupt the open reading frame, such as
the absence of start or stop codons and the presence of premature stop codons.
Similar observations have been made for homologs in the autosomes of the
chimpanzee, gorilla, rhesus macaque, baboon and out-group marmoset, which
suggests that there was a non-protein-coding ancestral VCY2 that was common to
apes and monkeys that predated the transposition event. Furthermore, while
protein-coding orthologs are absent, a putative non-protein-coding VCY2 with
conserved disablers was identified in the rhesus macaque Y chromosome
male-specific region. This finding implies that VCY2 might have not acquired its 
protein-coding ability before the ape-monkey split. VCY2 encodes a
testis-specific expressed protein and is involved in the pathologic process of
male infertility, and the acquisition of this gene might improve male fertility. 
This is the first evidence that de novo genes can be generated from transposed
autosomal non-protein-coding segments, and this evidence provides novel insights 
into the evolutionary history of the Y chromosome.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0119651 
PMCID: PMC4370482
PMID: 25799347  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

