

1290. Biol Reprod. 2015 Mar;92(3):73. doi: 10.1095/biolreprod.114.119495. Epub 2015 Jan
21.

Dexrazoxane abrogates acute doxorubicin toxicity in marmoset ovary.

Salih SM(1), Ringelstetter AK(2), Elsarrag MZ(2), Abbott DH(3), Roti EC(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Divisions of Reproductive
Endocrinology and Infertility and Reproductive Sciences, University of Wisconsin,
Madison, Wisconsin sanasalih5@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Divisions of Reproductive
Endocrinology and Infertility and Reproductive Sciences, University of Wisconsin,
Madison, Wisconsin.
(3)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Divisions of Reproductive
Endocrinology and Infertility and Reproductive Sciences, University of Wisconsin,
Madison, Wisconsin Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, University of
Wisconsin, Madison, Wisconsin.

Preservation of ovarian function following chemotherapy for nonovarian cancers is
a formidable challenge. For prepubescent girls, the only option to prevent
chemotherapy damage to the ovary is ovarian tissue cryopreservation, an
experimental procedure requiring invasive surgeries to harvest and reimplant
tissue, which carries the risk of cancer reintroduction. Drugs that block the
primary mechanism of chemotherapy insult, such as dexrazoxane (Dexra) in the
context of anthracycline chemotherapy, provide a novel approach for ovarian
protection and have the potential to overcome current limitations to
oncofertility treatment. Dexra is a catalytic topoisomerase 2 inhibitor that
protects the mouse ovary from acute doxorubicin (DXR) chemotherapy toxicity in
vitro by preventing DXR-induced DNA damage and subsequent gammaH2AX activation.
To translate acute DXR ovarian insult and Dexra protection from mouse to nonhuman
primate, freshly obtained marmoset ovarian tissue was cultured in vitro and
treated with vehicle or 20 μM Dexra 1 h prior to 50 nM DXR. Cultured ovarian
tissue was harvested at 2, 4, or 24 h post-DXR treatment. Dexra prevented
DXR-induced DNA double-strand breaks as quantified by the neutral comet assay.
DXR treatment for 24 h increased gammaH2AX phosphorylation, specifically
increasing the number of foci-positive granulosa cells in antral follicles, while
Dexra pretreatment inhibited DXR-induced gammaH2AX phosphorylation foci
formation. Additionally, Dexra pretreatment trended toward attenuating
DXR-induced AKT1 phosphorylation and caspase-9 activation as assayed by Western
blots of ovarian tissue lysates. The combined findings suggest Dexra prevents
primary DXR-induced DNA damage, the subsequent cellular response to DNA damage,
and may diminish early apoptotic signaling in marmoset ovarian tissue. This study
provides initial translation of Dexra protection against acute ovarian DXR
toxicity from mice to marmoset monkey tissue.

© 2015 by the Society for the Study of Reproduction, Inc.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod.114.119495 
PMCID: PMC4367967
PMID: 25609833  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

