

1295. Neuropsychopharmacology. 2015 May;40(6):1395-404. doi: 10.1038/npp.2014.324. Epub
2014 Dec 11.

Serotonergic, brain volume and attentional correlates of trait anxiety in
primates.

Mikheenko Y(1), Shiba Y(1), Sawiak S(2), Braesicke K(1), Cockcroft G(3), Clarke
H(1), Roberts AC(1).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Physiology, Development and Neuroscience, University of
Cambridge, Cambridge, UK [2] Behavioural and Clinical Neuroscience Institute,
University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.
(2)1] Behavioural and Clinical Neuroscience Institute, University of Cambridge,
Cambridge, UK [2] Wolfson Brain Imaging Centre, University of Cambridge, Box 65
Addenbrooke's Hospital, Cambridge, UK.
(3)1] Behavioural and Clinical Neuroscience Institute, University of Cambridge,
Cambridge, UK [2] Department of Psychology, University of Cambridge, Cambridge,
UK.

Trait anxiety is a risk factor for the development and maintenance of affective
disorders, and insights into the underlying brain mechanisms are vital for
improving treatment and prevention strategies. Translational studies in non-human
primates, where targeted neurochemical and genetic manipulations can be made, are
critical in view of their close neuroanatomical similarity to humans in brain
regions implicated in trait anxiety. Thus, we characterised the serotonergic and 
regional brain volume correlates of trait-like anxiety in the marmoset monkey.
Low- and high-anxious animals were identified by behavioral responses to a human 
intruder (HI) that are known to be sensitive to anxiolytic drug treatment.
Extracellular serotonin levels within the amygdala were measured with in vivo
microdialysis, at baseline and in response to challenge with the selective
serotonin reuptake inhibitor, citalopram. Regional brain volume was assessed by
structural magnetic resonance imaging. Anxious individuals showed persistent,
long-term fearful responses to both a HI and a model snake, alongside sustained
attention (vigilance) to novel cues in a context associated with unpredictable
threat. Neurally, high-anxious marmosets showed reduced amygdala serotonin
levels, and smaller volumes in a closely connected prefrontal region, the dorsal 
anterior cingulate cortex. These findings highlight behavioral and neural
similarities between trait-like anxiety in marmosets and humans, and set the
stage for further investigation of the processes contributing to vulnerability
and resilience to affective disorders.

DOI: 10.1038/npp.2014.324 
PMCID: PMC4397084
PMID: 25586542  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

