

1301. Am J Primatol. 2015 May;77(5):527-34. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22372. Epub 2015 Jan 8.

Identification of MHC I class genes in two Platyrrhini species.

Cao YH(1), Fan JW, Li AX, Liu HF, Li LR, Zhang CL, Zeng L, Sun ZZ.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory Animal Center of the Academy of Military Medical Science, Beijing, 
China; College of Life Sciences of Tarim University, Alaer, China.

The major histocompatibility complex is a diverse gene family that plays a
crucial role in the adaptive immune system. In humans, the MHC class I genes
consist of the classical loci of HLA-A, -B, and -C, and the nonclassical loci
HLA-E, -F, and -G. In Platyrrhini species, few MHC class I genes have been
described so far and were classified as MHC-E, MHC-F, and MHC-G, with MHC-G
possibly representing a classical MHC class I locus while there were arguments
about the existence of the MHC-B locus in Platyrrhini. In this study, MHC class I
genes were identified in eight common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) and two
brown-headed spider monkeys (Ateles fusciceps). For common marmosets, 401 cDNA
sequences were sequenced and 18 alleles were detected, including 14 Caja-G
alleles and 4 Caja-B alleles. Five to eleven Caja-G alleles and one to three
Caja-B alleles were detected in each animal. For brown-headed spider monkeys, 102
cDNA sequences were analyzed, and 9 new alleles were identified, including 5
Atfu-G and 4 Atfu-B alleles. Two or three Atfu-G and two Atfu-B alleles were
obtained for each of animal. In phylogenetic analyses, the MHC-G and -B alleles
from the two species and other Platyrrhini species show locus-specific clusters
with bootstrap values of 86% and 50%. The results of pairwise sequence
comparisons and an excess of non-synonymous nucleotide substitutions in the PBR
region are consistent with the suggestion that Caja-G and Atfu-G may be classical
MHC class I loci in the Platyrrhini species… But it appears that MHC-B locus of
the two Platyrrhini species shares features with both classical and nonclasical
MHC class I loci. Our results are an important addition to the limited MHC
immunogenetic information available for the Platyrrhini species.

© 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22372 
PMID: 25573376  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

