

1304. Am J Trop Med Hyg. 2015 Feb;92(2):370-6. doi: 10.4269/ajtmh.14-0455. Epub 2014
Dec 29.

Formation of infectious dengue virus-antibody immune complex in vivo in marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus) after passive transfer of anti-dengue virus monoclonal
antibodies and infection with dengue virus.

Moi ML(1), Ami Y(1), Shirai K(1), Lim CK(1), Suzaki Y(1), Saito Y(1), Kitaura
K(1), Saijo M(1), Suzuki R(1), Kurane I(2), Takasaki T(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Virology 1, National Institute of Infectious Diseases, Tokyo,
Japan; Division of Experimental Animal Research, National Institute of Infectious
Diseases, Musashimurayama, Tokyo, Japan; Department of Rheumatology and Clinical 
Immunology, Clinical Research Center for Allergy and Rheumatology, Sagamihara
National Hospital, National Hospital Organization, Kanagawa, Japan; College of
Bioresource Sciences, Nihon University, Fujisawa, Kanagawa, Japan; National
Institute of Infectious Diseases, Tokyo, Japan.
(2)Department of Virology 1, National Institute of Infectious Diseases, Tokyo,
Japan; Division of Experimental Animal Research, National Institute of Infectious
Diseases, Musashimurayama, Tokyo, Japan; Department of Rheumatology and Clinical 
Immunology, Clinical Research Center for Allergy and Rheumatology, Sagamihara
National Hospital, National Hospital Organization, Kanagawa, Japan; College of
Bioresource Sciences, Nihon University, Fujisawa, Kanagawa, Japan; National
Institute of Infectious Diseases, Tokyo, Japan kurane@nih.go.jp
takasaki@nih.go.jp.

Infection with a dengue virus (DENV) serotype induces cross-reactive, weakly
neutralizing antibodies to different dengue serotypes. It has been postulated
that cross-reactive antibodies form a virus-antibody immune complex and enhance
DENV infection of Fc gamma receptor (FcγR)-bearing cells. We determined whether
infectious DENV-antibody immune complex is formed in vivo in marmosets after
passive transfer of DENV-specific monoclonal antibody (mAb) and DENV inoculation 
and whether infectious DENV-antibody immune complex is detectable using
FcγR-expressing cells. Marmosets showed that DENV-antibody immune complex was
exclusively infectious to FcγR-expressing cells on days 2, 4, and 7 after passive
transfer of each of the mAbs (mAb 4G2 and mAb 6B6C) and DENV inoculation.
Although DENV-antibody immune complex was detected, contribution of the passively
transferred antibody to overall viremia levels was limited in this study. The
results indicate that DENV cross-reactive antibodies form DENV-antibody immune
complex in vivo, which is infectious to FcγR-bearing cells but not FcγR-negative 
cells.

© The American Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene.

DOI: 10.4269/ajtmh.14-0455 
PMCID: PMC4347344
PMID: 25548383  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

