

1306. J Exp Psychol Anim Learn Cogn. 2014 Jul;40(3):317-26. doi: 10.1037/xan0000027.
Epub 2014 May 5.

Transposition and its generalization in common marmosets.

Yamazaki Y(1), Saiki M(2), Inada M(2), Iriki A(2), Watanabe S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Graduate School of Human Relations, Keio University.
(2)Laboratory for Symbolic Cognitive Development, RIKEN Brain Science Institute.

Whether animals use relational cues in transposition tests has long been
considered a controversial issue. In the present study, we examined whether
common marmosets could generalize relational responses to untrained stimulus
pairs and further apply these generalizations to unknown shapes. The subjects
were trained to perform simple discrimination tasks using a pair of stimuli. The 
stimuli differed in size, and the subjects were required to select the larger or 
smaller of the 2 sizes, depending on the given contingencies. After experiencing 
several reversals, the subjects were examined using 2 different tests:
transposition and shape generalization. In the transposition test trials, in
which squares of different sizes than those used in the training trials were
presented, the subjects selected the stimulus based on the relative size of the
stimulus. In the shape generalization tests, sets of 5 novel shapes with the same
relative sizes were presented with the training stimuli. The subjects'
performance indicated successful transposition to the novel stimulus pairs, and
further analysis showed that transposition was more likely to occur when the test
stimuli shared physical features, such as the outer length and the number of line
segments, with the trained stimuli. Thus, the present study demonstrated the
robust ability of transposition in common marmosets based on relative size, both 
with and without common shape features, and offered a possible method for
specifying the critical stimulus features through which transposition can be more
readily observed.

DOI: 10.1037/xan0000027 
PMID: 25545979  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

