

1327. Exp Toxicol Pathol. 2015 Jan;67(1):41-51. doi: 10.1016/j.etp.2014.09.007. Epub
2014 Nov 11.

Histopathological characterization of renal tubular and interstitial changes in
5/6 nephrectomized marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus).

Suzuki Y(1), Yamaguchi I(2), Myojo K(2), Kimoto N(3), Imaizumi M(2), Takada C(2),
Sanada H(3), Takaba K(2), Yamate J(4).

Author information: 
(1)Translational Research Unit, Research and Development Division, Kyowa Hakko
Kirin, Co., Ltd., Japan; Veterinary Pathology, Osaka Prefecture University,
Japan. Electronic address: yui.manabe@kyowa-kirin.co.jp.
(2)Translational Research Unit, Research and Development Division, Kyowa Hakko
Kirin, Co., Ltd., Japan.
(3)Research Functions Unit, Research and Development Division, Kyowa Hakko Kirin,
Co., Ltd., Japan.
(4)Veterinary Pathology, Osaka Prefecture University, Japan.

Common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) have become a useful animal model,
particularly for development of biopharmaceuticals. While various renal failure
models have been established in rodents, there is currently no acceptable model
in marmosets. We analyzed the damaged renal tubules and tubulointerstitial
changes (inflammation and fibrosis) of 5/6 nephrectomized (Nx) common marmosets
by histopathological/immunohistochemical methods, and compared these findings to 
those in 5/6 Nx SD rats. In Nx marmosets and rats sacrificed at 5 and 13 weeks
after Nx, variously dilated and atrophied renal tubules were seen in the cortex
in common; however, the epithelial proliferating activity was much less in Nx
marmosets. Furthermore, the degrees of inflammation and fibrosis seen in the
affected cortex were more severe and massive in Nx marmosets with time-dependent 
increase. Interestingly, inflammation in Nx marmosets, of which degree was less
in Nx rats, consisted of a large number of CD3-positive T cells and CD20-positive
B cells (occasionally forming follicles), and a few CD68-positive macrophages.
Based on these findings, lymphocytes might contribute to the progressive renal
lesions in Nx marmosets. Fibrotic areas in Nx marmosets comprised myofibroblasts 
expressing vimentin and α-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA), whereas along with
vimentin and α-SMA expressions, desmin was expressed in myofibroblasts in Nx
rats. This study shows that there are some differences in renal lesions induced
by Nx between marmosets and rats, which would provide useful, base-line
information for pharmacology and toxicology studies using Nx marmosets.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.etp.2014.09.007 
PMID: 25446802  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

