

1332. Am J Primatol. 2015 Apr;77(4):425-33. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22358. Epub 2014 Nov 18.

Dense understory and absence of capuchin monkeys (Sapajus xanthosternos) predict 
higher density of common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) in the Brazilian
Northeast.

Hilário RR(1), Ferrari SF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological and Health Sciences, Federal University of Amapá,
Macapá, Brazil; Department of Systematics and Ecology, Federal University of
Paraíba, João Pessoa, Brazil.

Understanding the effects of habitat structure and other environmental variables 
on the density of a species can help define its habitat preferences and key
ecological determinants of population parameters. The present study evaluated the
effects of fragment size, the presence of a key predator/competitor, the
yellow-breasted capuchin (Sapajus xanthosternos), primary productivity, the
abundance of bromeliads, and habitat structure on the population density of the
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). A total of 21 fragments were surveyed
within a 350-km long zone of coastal Atlantic Forest representing the southern
extreme of the distribution of the species in the Brazilian Northeast. An index
of marmoset density was generated for each site based on playback surveys. The
relationship between the density of marmosets and a set of parameters was
evaluated by multiple regression. A Principal Components Analysis (PCA) condensed
the five variables of habitat structure into two principal components, which
contained 85% of their combined variation. The model that best explained the
density of marmosets (R(2) = 59.1) contained the second PCA component and the
presence/absence of capuchins. The analysis indicated that the marmosets prefer
forests with denser understory, whether or not they are secondary habitats. The
negative effect of the presence of capuchins may be related to predation
pressure. The results of this study indicate that multiple-site studies may
provide important insights into the habitat preferences of primate species and
the factors that affect their population density.

© 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22358 
PMID: 25407393  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

