

1333. Comp Med. 2014 Oct;64(5):394-403.

Micromelic dysplasia-like syndrome in a captive colony of common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus).

Bosseler L(1), Cornillie P(2), Saunders JH(3), Bakker J(4), Langermans JA(4),
Casteleyn C(5), Decostere A(2), Chiers K(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Bacteriology and Poultry Diseases, Faculty of
Veterinary Medicine, Ghent University, Merelbeke, Belgium.
leslie.bosseler@ugent.be.
(2)Department of Morphology, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Ghent University,
Merelbeke, Belgium.
(3)Department of Veterinary Medical Imaging and Small Animal Orthopaedics,
Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Ghent University, Merelbeke, Belgium.
(4)Department of Animal Science Department, Biomedical Primate Research Centre,
Rijswijk, The Netherlands.
(5)Department of Morphology, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Ghent University,
Merelbeke, Belgium; Department of Veterinary Sciences, Faculty of Pharmaceutical,
Bio-chemical and Veterinary Sciences, University of Antwerp, Wilrijk, Belgium.
(6)Department of Pathology, Bacteriology and Poultry Diseases, Faculty of
Veterinary Medicine, Ghent University, Merelbeke, Belgium.

Over several years, 0% to 5% of adolescent animals in a captive colony of common 
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) showed severely bended arms and legs over several 
years. The animals showed no pain, discomfort, or altered behavior but were
unable to stretch their distal limbs to their full extent. To characterize the
lesion morphologically, the bones of 4 affected marmosets were compared
macroscopically and radiographically with those of 6 unaffected animals. The
deformities were characterized by mid- to distal diaphyseal bending and
pronounced shortening of long bones. The morphology and density of other bones
including the skull and vertebrae were unaffected. Although vitamin D values were
low in a fifth affected marmoset during 10 to 16 mo of age, lesions associated
with rickets were not observed. To our knowledge, this report is the first to
describe a micromelic dysplasia-like syndrome comprising severe, idiopathic
bending and shortening of long bones in a colony of marmosets.


PMCID: PMC4236788
PMID: 25402180  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

