

1340. Anim Behav. 2014 Oct 1;97:95-103.

Both parents respond equally to infant cues in the cooperatively breeding common 
marmoset, Callithrix jacchus.

Sánchez SM(1), Ziegler TE(2), Snowdon CT(3).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Psicología Biológica y de la Salud, Universidad Autónoma de
Madrid, Spain.
(2)Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, Madison, WI, U.S.A.
(3)Psychology Department, University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI, U.S.A.

Although there has been great interest in the evolutionary approach to
cooperative breeding species, few studies actually directly compare fathers and
mothers on their motivation to parent offspring. We tested the responsiveness of 
common marmoset mothers and fathers to vocal and olfactory cues from their own
and other infants using a two-chamber test apparatus designed to evaluate
responses in the absence of competition from other caregivers within the family. 
We tested parentally experienced mothers and fathers living with young infants
and former parents with no current offspring to address the following questions: 
(1) do mothers and fathers respond equally to sensory cues of infants; (2) do
parents discriminate cues of their own offspring when the infants are highly
dependent and when the infants are more independent; and (3) are parents
responsive to both auditory and olfactory cues? Mothers and fathers reacted
similarly in all tests. Parents responded equally to isolation calls from their
own and unfamiliar dependent infants and there was minimal response to olfactory 
cues. Responses to infant vocal cues were significantly stronger when infants
were dependent upon direct parental care. There was no difference in response
between parents whose infants were no longer dependent and former parents with no
current offspring. The results show that both parents are highly responsive to
infant vocal cues when their own infants are dependent on parental care,
supporting an effect of hormonal priming. However, parents only showed
behavioural discrimination between vocalizations from their own and unfamiliar
infants when their infants were mostly independent.

DOI: 10.1016/j.anbehav.2014.09.002 
PMCID: PMC4203656
PMID: 25342858 

