

1344. Anat Rec (Hoboken). 2014 Nov;297(11):2093-104. doi: 10.1002/ar.23029.

Nasal morphometry in marmosets: loss and redistribution of olfactory surface
area.

Smith TD(1), Eiting TP, Bonar CJ, Craven BA.

Author information: 
(1)School of Physical Therapy, Slippery Rock University, Slippery Rock,
Pennsylvania; Department of Anthropology, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania.

The two major groups of primates differ in internal nasal anatomy. Strepsirrhines
(e.g., lemurs) have more numerous turbinals and recesses compared with
haplorhines (e.g., monkeys). Since detailed quantitative comparisons of nasal
surface area (SA) have not been made, we measured mucosa in serially sectioned
monkeys (Callithrix jacchus, Cebuella pygmaea). Data were compared with
previously published findings on the mouse lemur, Microcebus murinus. The nasal
airways were digitally reconstructed using computed tomography scanned heads of
Cebuella and Microcebus. In addition, morphometric and functional analyses were
carried out using segmented photographs of the histological sections of Cebuella 
and Microcebus. The SA of the ethmoturbinal complex is about half as large in
marmosets compared with Microcebus, and is covered with less olfactory mucosa
(18%-24% in marmosets, compared with ∼ 50% in Microcebus). Whereas the
ethmoturbinal complex of Microcebus bears half of the total olfactory mucosa in
the nasal airway, most (∼ 80%) olfactory mucosa is distributed on other surfaces 
in the marmosets (e.g., nasal septum). A comparison to previously published data 
suggests all primate species have less olfactory surface area (OSA) compared with
other similar-sized mammals, but this is especially true of marmosets. Taken
together, these findings support the hypothesis that there is a reduced OSA in at
least some haplorhines, and this can be linked to diminished posterosuperior
dimensions of the nasal fossae. However, haplorhines may have minimized their
olfactory loss by redistributing olfactory mucosa on non-turbinal surfaces. Our
findings also imply that airflow patterns in the olfactory region differ among
primates.

© 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ar.23029 
PMID: 25312367  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

