

1345. Neurosci Res. 2015 Apr;93:91-8. doi: 10.1016/j.neures.2014.09.011. Epub 2014 Oct 
8.

Susceptible period of socio-emotional development affected by constant exposure
to daylight.

Koshiba M(1), Senoo A(2), Karino G(3), Ozawa S(2), Tanaka I(4), Honda Y(4), Usui 
S(4), Kodama T(4), Mimura K(5), Nakamura S(5), Kunikata T(6), Yamanouchi H(6),
Tokuno H(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Saitama Medical University, Japan; Department of
Biochemistry, Saitama Medical University, Japan; National Center of Neurology and
Psychiatry, Japan. Electronic address: koshiba@saitama-med.ac.jp.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, Saitama Medical University, Japan; Tokyo University 
of Agriculture and Technology, Japan.
(3)Department of Pediatrics, Saitama Medical University, Japan; Department of
Biochemistry, Saitama Medical University, Japan; Tokyo University of Agriculture 
and Technology, Japan.
(4)Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of Medical Science, Japan.
(5)Tokyo University of Agriculture and Technology, Japan; National Center of
Neurology and Psychiatry, Japan.
(6)Department of Pediatrics, Saitama Medical University, Japan.

As a diurnal experimental primate, the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) has
recently contributed to numerous kinds of studies of neurobiological psychiatry
as an essential pre-clinical model. The marmoset matures sexually within one or
two years after birth. Thus, we can observe how the primate learns and develops
psycho-cognitive functions through experiences in experimental environment for a 
much shorter period compared to that of humans. Longer daylight exposure may
affect psychological development of children. In our research, we focus on
raising marmosets under constant daylight from birth until various ages. In order
to quantitatively evaluate the development of higher-ordered psychological
functions, we designed a system of socio-behavioral tests and multivariate
correlation analysis methods based on principal component analysis. With
reference to the call and typical body movement expressed during a particular
social context, we statistically inferred the emotional features of the subjects.
In the current literature, we review our published results showing increased
alert behaviors by constant light, and then, attempted to extend our additional
analysis to seek age-dependent susceptibility to constant light. We then present 
the neurobiological mechanisms with reference to previous research reports. The
current review suggests possible existence of a susceptible period earlier than
three to five month-old in the environment-induced developmental disorder model, 
supposedly like attention deficit hyperactive disorders (ADHD) or oppositional
defiant disorder (ODD).

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ireland Ltd and the Japan Neuroscience Society. All
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neures.2014.09.011 
PMID: 25305341  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

