

1358. Neurosci Res. 2015 Apr;93:8-19. doi: 10.1016/j.neures.2014.09.003. Epub 2014 Sep 
19.

Marmosets as model species in neuroscience and evolutionary anthropology.

Burkart JM(1), Finkenwirth C(2).

Author information: 
(1)Anthropological Institute and Museum, University of Zurich - Irchel,
Winterthurerstrasse 190, 8057 Zürich, Switzerland. Electronic address:
Judith.Burkart@aim.uzh.ch.
(2)Anthropological Institute and Museum, University of Zurich - Irchel,
Winterthurerstrasse 190, 8057 Zürich, Switzerland.

Marmosets are increasingly used as model species by both neuroscientists and
evolutionary anthropologists, but with a different rationale for doing so.
Whereas neuroscientists stress that marmosets share many cognitive traits with
humans due to common descent, anthropologists stress those traits shared with
marmosets - and callitrichid monkeys in general - due to convergent evolution, as
a consequence of the cooperative breeding system that characterizes both humans
and callitrichids. Similarities in socio-cognitive abilities due to convergence, 
rather than homology, raise the question whether these similarities also extend
to the proximate regulatory mechanisms, which is particularly relevant for
neuroscientific investigations. In this review, we first provide an overview of
the convergent adaptations to cooperative breeding at the psychological and
cognitive level in primates, which bear important implications for our
understanding of human cognitive evolution. In the second part, we zoom in on two
of these convergent adaptations, proactive prosociality and social learning, and 
compare their proximate regulation in marmosets and humans with regard to
oxytocin and cognitive top down regulation. Our analysis suggests considerable
similarity in these regulatory mechanisms presumably because the convergent
traits emerged due to small motivational changes that define how pre-existing
cognitive mechanisms are quantitatively combined. This finding reconciles the
prima facie contradictory rationale for using marmosets as high priority model
species in neuroscience and anthropology.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ireland Ltd and the Japan Neuroscience Society. All
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neures.2014.09.003 
PMID: 25242577  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

