

1373. Front Neural Circuits. 2014 Aug 8;8:96. doi: 10.3389/fncir.2014.00096.
eCollection 2014.

A simpler primate brain: the visual system of the marmoset monkey.

Solomon SG(1), Rosa MG(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, University College London London, UK.
(2)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Clayton, VIC Australia ; Monash
Vision Group, Monash University, Clayton, VIC Australia ; Australian Research
Council Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain Function, Monash University
Node, Clayton, VIC Australia.

Humans are diurnal primates with high visual acuity at the center of gaze.
Although primates share many similarities in the organization of their visual
centers with other mammals, and even other species of vertebrates, their visual
pathways also show unique features, particularly with respect to the organization
of the cerebral cortex. Therefore, in order to understand some aspects of human
visual function, we need to study non-human primate brains. Which species is the 
most appropriate model? Macaque monkeys, the most widely used non-human primates,
are not an optimal choice in many practical respects. For example, much of the
macaque cerebral cortex is buried within sulci, and is therefore inaccessible to 
many imaging techniques, and the postnatal development and lifespan of macaques
are prohibitively long for many studies of brain maturation, plasticity, and
aging. In these and several other respects the marmoset, a small New World
monkey, represents a more appropriate choice. Here we review the visual pathways 
of the marmoset, highlighting recent work that brings these advantages into
focus, and identify where additional work needs to be done to link marmoset brain
organization to that of macaques and humans. We will argue that the marmoset
monkey provides a good subject for studies of a complex visual system, which will
likely allow an important bridge linking experiments in animal models to humans.

DOI: 10.3389/fncir.2014.00096 
PMCID: PMC4126041
PMID: 25152716  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

