

1378. Mol Ther Methods Clin Dev. 2014 Feb 5;1. pii: 10.

Marmosets as a preclinical model for testing "off-label" use of doxycycline to
turn on Flt3L expression from high-capacity adenovirus vectors.

VanderVeen N(1), Paran C(1), Appelhans A(1), Krasinkiewicz J(1), Lemons R(1),
Appelman H(2), Doherty R(1), Palmer D(3), Ng P(3), Lowenstein PR(1), Castro
MG(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, The University of Michigan School of Medicine, Ann
Arbor, Michigan, USA ; Department of Cell and Developmental Biology, The
University of Michigan School of Medicine, Ann Arbor, Michigan, USA.
(2)Department of Pathology, The University of Michigan School of Medicine,
University Hospital, Ann Arbor, Michigan, USA.
(3)Department of Molecular and Human Genetics, Baylor College of Medicine,
Houston, Texas, USA.

We developed a combined conditional cytotoxic, i.e., herpes simplex type
1-thymidine kinase (TK), plus immune-stimulatory, i.e., fms-like tyrosine kinase 
ligand-3-mediated gene therapy for glioblastoma multiforme (GBM). Therapeutic
transgenes were encoded within high-capacity adenoviral vectors (HC-Ad); TK was
expressed constitutively, while Flt3L was under the control of the TetOn
regulatable promoter. We previously assessed efficacy and safety in intracranial 
GBM rodent models. But, since this approach involves expression of a cytokine
within the brain, we chose the nonhuman primate, i.e., Callithrix jaccus
(marmoset) as it has been established that its immune response shares
similarities with man. We characterized the safety, cell-type specific
expression, and doxycycline (DOX)-inducibility of HC-Ad-TetOn-Flt3L delivered
within the striatum. We used allometrically scaled DOX doses delivered orally,
twice daily for one month, mimicking the route and duration of DOX administration
planned for the GBM trial. Flt3L was effectively expressed within astrocytes,
microglia, oligodendrocytes, and neurons. No evidence of brain or systemic
toxicities due to the treatment was encountered. Our data indicate that DOX doses
equivalent to those used in humans to treat infections can be safely used
"off-label" to turn "on" therapeutic gene expression from HC-Ad-TetOn-Flt3L;
providing evidence for the safety of this approach in the clinic.

DOI: 10.1038/mtm.2013.10 
PMCID: PMC4111110
PMID: 25068145 

