

1385. Arthritis Res Ther. 2014 Jul 8;16(4):R143. doi: 10.1186/ar4605.

Type II collagen antibody response is enriched in the synovial fluid of
rheumatoid joints and directed to the same major epitopes as in collagen induced 
arthritis in primates and mice.

Lindh I, Snir O, Lönnblom E, Uysal H, Andersson I, Nandakumar KS, Vierboom M, 't 
Hart B, Malmström V, Holmdahl R.

INTRODUCTION: Antibodies towards type II collagen (CII) are detected in patients 
with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and in non-human primates and rodents with
collagen induced arthritis (CIA). We have previously shown that antibodies
specific for several CII-epitopes are pathogenic using monoclonal antibodies from
arthritic mice, although the role of different anti-CII epitopes has not been
investigated in detail in other species. We therefore performed an inter-species 
comparative study of the autoantibody response to CII in patients with RA versus 
monkeys and mice with CIA.
METHODS: Analysis of the full epitope repertoire along the disease course of CIA 
was performed using a library of CII triple-helical peptides. The antibody
responses to the major CII epitopes were analyzed in sera and synovial fluid from
RA patients, and in sera from rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta), common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus) and mice.
RESULTS: Many CII epitopes including the major C1, U1, and J1 were associated
with established CIA and arginine residues played an important role in the
anti-CII antibody interactions. The major epitopes were also recognized in RA
patients, both in sera and even more pronounced in synovial fluid: 77% of the
patients had antibodies to the U1 epitope. The anti-CII immune response was not
restricted to the anti-citrulline protein antibodies (ACPA) positive RA group.
CONCLUSION: CII conformational dependent antibody responses are common in RA and 
are likely to originate from rheumatoid joints but did not show a correlation
with ACPA response. Importantly, the fine specificity of the anti-CII response is
similar with CIA in monkeys and rodents where the recognized epitopes are
conserved and have a major pathogenic role. Thus, anti-CII antibodies may both
contribute to, as well as be the consequence of, local joint inflammation.

DOI: 10.1186/ar4605 
PMCID: PMC4226996
PMID: 25005029  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

