

1393. J Neurophysiol. 2014 Sep 15;112(6):1421-38. doi: 10.1152/jn.00077.2014. Epub 2014
Jun 11.

Temporal response properties of koniocellular (blue-on and blue-off) cells in
marmoset lateral geniculate nucleus.

Pietersen AN(1), Cheong SK(1), Solomon SG(2), Tailby C(3), Martin PR(4).

Author information: 
(1)Australian Research Council Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain
Function, University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia; Save Sight Institute,
University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia;
(2)School of Medical Sciences, University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia;
Department of Experimental Psychology, University College London, London, United 
Kingdom; and.
(3)School of Medical Sciences, University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia; Florey
Institute of Neuroscience and Mental Health, Heidelberg, Australia.
(4)Australian Research Council Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain
Function, University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia; Save Sight Institute,
University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia; School of Medical Sciences, University
of Sydney, Sydney, Australia; prmartin@physiol.usyd.edu.au.

Visual perception requires integrating signals arriving at different times from
parallel visual streams. For example, signals carried on the phasic-magnocellular
(MC) pathway reach the cerebral cortex pathways some tens of milliseconds before 
signals traveling on the tonic-parvocellular (PC) pathway. Visual latencies of
cells in the koniocellular (KC) pathway have not been specifically studied in
simian primates. Here we compared MC and PC cells to "blue-on" (BON) and
"blue-off" (BOF) KC cells; these cells carry visual signals originating in
short-wavelength-sensitive (S) cones. We made extracellular recordings in the
lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) of anesthetized marmosets. We found that BON
visual latencies are 10-20 ms longer than those of PC or MC cells. A small number
of recorded BOF cells (n = 7) had latencies 10-20 ms longer than those of BON
cells. Within all cell groups, latencies of foveal receptive fields (<10°
eccentricity) were longer (by 3-8 ms) than latencies of peripheral receptive
fields (>10°). Latencies of yellow-off inputs to BON cells lagged the blue-on
inputs by up to 30 ms, but no differences in visual latency were seen on
comparing marmosets expressing dichromatic ("red-green color-blind") or
trichromatic color vision phenotype. We conclude that S-cone signals leaving the 
LGN on KC pathways are delayed with respect to signals traveling on PC and MC
pathways. Cortical circuits serving color vision must therefore integrate across 
delays in (red-green) chromatic signals carried by PC cells and (blue-yellow)
signals carried by KC cells.

Copyright © 2014 the American Physiological Society.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00077.2014 
PMID: 24920024  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

