

1414. Front Behav Neurosci. 2014 Apr 24;8:137. doi: 10.3389/fnbeh.2014.00137.
eCollection 2014.

Individual differences in behavioral and cardiovascular reactivity to emotive
stimuli and their relationship to cognitive flexibility in a primate model of
trait anxiety.

Shiba Y(1), Santangelo AM(1), Braesicke K(1), Agustín-Pavón C(1), Cockcroft G(2),
Haggard M(3), Roberts AC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Development and Neuroscience, University of
Cambridge Cambridge, UK ; Behavioural and Clinical Neuroscience Institute,
University of Cambridge Cambridge, UK.
(2)Behavioural and Clinical Neuroscience Institute, University of Cambridge
Cambridge, UK ; Department of Psychology, University of Cambridge Cambridge, UK.
(3)Department of Psychology, University of Cambridge Cambridge, UK.

High trait anxiety is a risk factor for the development of anxiety disorders.
Like the disorders themselves high trait anxiety has marked phenotypic variation 
at the level of symptomatology and neural circuits, suggesting that there may be 
different symptoms and distinct neural circuits associated with risk for these
disorders. To address these issues, it is essential to develop reliable animal
models of trait anxiety in a non-human primate whose brain bears structural and
functional similarity to humans. The present study investigated individual
variation in responsivity to fearful and anxiety provoking stimuli in the common 
marmoset monkey. Seven out of 27 animals failed to display discriminative,
conditioned cardiovascular and behavioral responses on an auditory fear
discrimination task, similar to that seen in high anxious humans and rodents.
Their heightened emotionality to a rubber snake was consistent with the
hypothesis that they were high in trait-like anxiety. Evidence for phenotypic
variation in the high anxiety group was provided by the finding that
discrimination failure was predicted early in conditioning by either
hyper-vigilant scanning to the cues or a reduction in blood pressure to the
context, i.e., test apparatus. Given that high trait anxiety in humans can be
associated with altered prefrontal cognitive functioning and previously we
implicated the marmoset anterior orbitofrontal (antOFC) and ventrolateral
prefrontal cortex (vlPFC) in negative emotion regulation, we also tested the
marmosets on two tests of cognitive flexibility differentially dependent on these
two regions. While the high anxious group did not differ overall in their
perseverative performance, the two distinct phenotypes were differentially
correlated with reduced perseverative responding on the OFC- and vlPFC-dependent 
flexibility tests. Together, this study provides a new model of trait anxiety in 
marmosets amenable to analysis of phenotypic variation and neural circuitry.

DOI: 10.3389/fnbeh.2014.00137 
PMCID: PMC4006051
PMID: 24795587 

