

1416. Mol Ther. 2014 Jul;22(7):1299-1309. doi: 10.1038/mt.2014.68. Epub 2014 Apr 30.

Global CNS transduction of adult mice by intravenously delivered rAAVrh.8 and
rAAVrh.10 and nonhuman primates by rAAVrh.10.

Yang B(1), Li S(2), Wang H(3), Guo Y(4), Gessler DJ(5), Cao C(6), Su Q(7), Kramer
J(8), Zhong L(9), Ahmed SS(2), Zhang H(10), He R(7), Desrosiers RC(8), Brown
R(11), Xu Z(12), Gao G(13).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry & Molecular Pharmacology, University of
Massachusetts, Worcester, Massachusetts, USA; Division of Biology, California
Institute of Technology, Pasadena, California, USA.
(2)Gene Therapy Center, University of Massachusetts, Worcester, Massachusetts,
USA; Department of Microbiology & Physiology Systems, University of
Massachusetts, Worcester, Massachusetts, USA.
(3)Department of Biochemistry & Molecular Pharmacology, University of
Massachusetts, Worcester, Massachusetts, USA.
(4)Department of Biochemistry & Molecular Pharmacology, University of
Massachusetts, Worcester, Massachusetts, USA; Department of Neurology, the Second
Hospital of Hebei Medical University, Shijiazhuang, People's Republic of China.
(5)Gene Therapy Center, University of Massachusetts, Worcester, Massachusetts,
USA; Department of Microbiology & Physiology Systems, University of
Massachusetts, Worcester, Massachusetts, USA; University of Heidelberg, Medical
School, Heidelberg, Germany.
(6)Gene Therapy Center, University of Massachusetts, Worcester, Massachusetts,
USA; Department of Physiology, Tongji Medical School, Tongji University,
Shanghai, People's Republic of China.
(7)Gene Therapy Center, University of Massachusetts, Worcester, Massachusetts,
USA.
(8)New England Primate Research Center and Harvard Medical School, Southborough, 
Massachusetts, USA.
(9)Gene Therapy Center, University of Massachusetts, Worcester, Massachusetts,
USA; Department of Pediatrics, University of Massachusetts, Worcester,
Massachusetts, USA.
(10)Gene Therapy Center, University of Massachusetts, Worcester, Massachusetts,
USA; Department of Microbiology & Physiology Systems, University of
Massachusetts, Worcester, Massachusetts, USA; Department of Pharmaceutical
Sciences, South Dakota State University, Brookings, South Dakota, USA.
(11)Department of Neurology, University of Massachusetts, Worcester,
Massachusetts, USA.
(12)Department of Biochemistry & Molecular Pharmacology, University of
Massachusetts, Worcester, Massachusetts, USA. Electronic address:
zuoshang.xu@umassmed.edu.
(13)Gene Therapy Center, University of Massachusetts, Worcester, Massachusetts,
USA; Department of Microbiology & Physiology Systems, University of
Massachusetts, Worcester, Massachusetts, USA; State Key Laboratory of Biotherapy,
West China Hospital, Sichuan University, Chengdu, People's Republic of China.
Electronic address: guangping.gao@umassmed.edu.

Some recombinant adeno-associated viruses (rAAVs) can cross the neonatal
blood-brain barrier (BBB) and efficiently transduce cells of the central nervous 
system (CNS). However, in the adult CNS, transduction levels by systemically
delivered rAAVs are significantly reduced, limiting their potential for CNS gene 
therapy. Here, we characterized 12 different rAAVEGFPs in the adult mouse CNS
following intravenous delivery. We show that the capability of crossing the adult
BBB and achieving widespread CNS transduction is a common character of AAV
serotypes tested. Of note, rAAVrh.8 is the leading vector for robust global
transduction of glial and neuronal cell types in regions of clinical importance
such as cortex, caudate-putamen, hippocampus, corpus callosum, and substantia
nigra. It also displays reduced peripheral tissue tropism compared to other
leading vectors. Additionally, we evaluated rAAVrh.10 with and without microRNA
(miRNA)-regulated expressional detargeting from peripheral tissues for systemic
gene delivery to the CNS in marmosets. Our results indicate that rAAVrh.8, along 
with rh.10 and 9, hold the best promise for developing novel therapeutic
strategies to treat neurological diseases in the adult patient population.
Additionally, systemically delivered rAAVrh.10 can transduce the CNS efficiently,
and its transgene expression can be limited in the periphery by endogenous miRNAs
in adult marmosets.

DOI: 10.1038/mt.2014.68 
PMCID: PMC4089005
PMID: 24781136  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

