

1438. J Neuroendocrinol. 2014 May;26(5):296-309. doi: 10.1111/jne.12147.

Oestradiol modulation of cognition in adult female marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus).

Lacreuse A(1), Chang J, Metevier CM, LaClair M, Meyer JS, Ferris CM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Massachusetts, Amherst, MA, USA.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) provides many advantages over
traditional rodent and macaque species as a model for human ageing and may be
very useful for studying the effects of sex steroids on cognitive and brain
ageing. We present the first study examining the effects of oestrogens on
cognitive function in female marmosets. Adult monkeys (3-5 years of age) were
trained to a specific learning criterion on a battery of cognitive tasks
preoperatively (object discrimination, delayed response with increasing delays
and detour reaching with opaque box) and were tested on different versions of
these tasks (object reversals, delayed response with randomised delays and detour
reaching with clear box) after ovariectomy and simultaneous implantation with
17β-oestradiol (E2 ) (n = 6) or blank (n = 6) Silastic capsules. Acquisition of a
delayed matching-to-position task with a 1-s delay was also administered after
completion of these tests. E2 -treated monkeys were significantly impaired on the
second reversal and showed an increase in perseverative responding from reversals
1-3. Their performance also tended to be worse than that of control monkeys on
the delayed response task. Performance acquisition on the delayed
matching-to-position tended to be better in E2 -treated relative to control
monkeys, although the group difference did not reach statistical significance. No
effect of treatment was detected for detour reaching or affiliative behaviours.
Overall, the findings indicate that E2 compromises performance on
prefrontally-mediated tasks. The suggestion that E2 may improve acquisition on
tasks dependent on the hippocampus will require further validation. These results
are discussed in the context of dopaminergic and serotonergic signalling. We
conclude that the marmoset is a useful new primate model for examining the
effects of oestrogens on cognitive function.

© 2014 British Society for Neuroendocrinology.

DOI: 10.1111/jne.12147 
PMCID: PMC4040528
PMID: 24617856  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

