

1449. Osteoporos Int. 2014 Apr;25(4):1255-66. doi: 10.1007/s00198-013-2566-4. Epub 2014
Feb 15.

Osteogenic induction from marmoset embryonic stem cells cultured in
feeder-dependent and feeder-independent conditions.

Trettner S(1), Findeisen A, Taube S, Horn PA, Sasaki E, zur Nieden NI.

Author information: 
(1)Group Applied Stem Cell Technology, Fraunhofer Institute for Cell Therapy and 
Immunology, Leipzig, Germany.

Embryonic stem cells (ESCs) have become increasingly attractive for cell
replacement therapies of osteodegenerative diseases; however, pre-clinical
studies in large animal models to repair diseased or injured bone are lacking. As
a first step into this direction, we describe here the feeder-free cultivation
and directed osteogenic differentiation of marmoset ESCs.INTRODUCTION: Owing to
their potential to self-renew and their enormous differentiation capability, ESCs
are an adequate cell source for cell replacement therapies. To implement stem
cell technology clinically, standardized cultivation and differentiation
protocols and appropriate animal models are needed. Here, we describe the
feeder-free cultivation of Callithrix jacchus ESCs (cESCs) in a chemically
defined medium and their subsequent osteogenic differentiation.
METHODS: cESCs were maintained on mouse embryonic fibroblast feeder layers or in 
feeder-free conditions with activin A and basic fibroblast growth factor.
Differentiation into mature osteoblasts was steered with ascorbic acid,
β-glycerophosphate and 1α,25-(OH)2 vitamin D3 employing various induction
strategies.
RESULTS: In feeder-free conditions, cESCs maintained pluripotency as indicated by
Oct-4 and Nanog expression, positive immunostaining for typical primate ESC
markers and high telomerase activity. Cells also remained karyotypically normal
after 40 passages without feeder cells. The hanging drop protocol as well as
omitting the embryoid body step proved unsuccessful to initiate osteogenic
differentiation. The highest degree of osteogenesis was achieved by formation of 
embryoid bodies employing the cell cluster technique as indicated by the amount
of deposited calcium and bone marker gene expression. Early addition of retinoic 
acid further improved the yield of osteoblasts and led to an increase in calcium 
deposition.
CONCLUSIONS: The osteogenic differentiation potential of feeder-free cESCs was
equal if not higher compared to cells grown on feeders. These findings open the
field for near clinical transplantation studies in primate models to evaluate the
effectiveness of ESC-derived osteoblasts.

DOI: 10.1007/s00198-013-2566-4 
PMID: 24531422  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

