

1455. J Comp Neurol. 2014 Aug 1;522(11):2553-75. doi: 10.1002/cne.23549.

Distribution of neurotransmitter receptors and zinc in the pigeon (Columba livia)
hippocampal formation: A basis for further comparison with the mammalian
hippocampus.

Herold C(1), Bingman VP, Ströckens F, Letzner S, Sauvage M, Palomero-Gallagher N,
Zilles K, Güntürkün O.

Author information: 
(1)C. & O. Vogt Institute of Brain Research, University of Düsseldorf, 40225,
Düsseldorf, Germany.

The avian hippocampal formation (HF) and mammalian hippocampus share a similar
functional role in spatial cognition, but the underlying neuronal mechanisms
allowing the functional similarity are incompletely understood. To understand
better the organization of the avian HF and its transmitter receptors, we
analyzed binding site densities for glutamatergic AMPA, NMDA, and kainate
receptors; GABAA receptors; muscarinic M1 , M2 and nicotinic (nACh) acetylcholine
receptors; noradrenergic α1 and α2 receptors; serotonergic 5-HT1A receptors;
dopaminergic D1/5 receptors by using quantitative in vitro receptor
autoradiography. Additionally, we performed a modified Timm staining procedure to
label zinc. The regionally different receptor densities mapped well onto seven HF
subdivisions previously described. Several differences in receptor expression
highlighted distinct HF subdivisions. Notable examples include 1) high GABAA and 
α1 receptor expression, which rendered distinctive ventral subdivisions; 2) high 
α2 receptor expression, which rendered distinctive a dorsomedial subdivision; 3) 
distinct kainate, α2 , and muscarinic receptor densities that rendered
distinctive the two dorsolateral subdivisions; and 4) a dorsomedial region
characterized by high kainate receptor density. We further observed similarities 
in receptor binding densities between subdivisions of the avian and mammalian HF.
Despite the similarities, we propose that 300 hundred million years of
independent evolution has led to a mosaic of similarities and differences in the 
organization of the avian HF and mammalian hippocampus and that thinking about
the avian HF in terms of the strict organization of the mammalian hippocampus is 
likely insufficient to understand the HF of birds.

© 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.23549 
PMID: 24477871  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

