

1471. J Am Assoc Lab Anim Sci. 2013 Nov;52(6):756-62.

Using snacks high in fat and protein to improve glucoregulatory function in
adolescent male marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Ziegler TE(1), Sosa ME(2), Peterson LJ(3), Colman RJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin, Madison, 
Wisconsin, USA. ziegler@primate.wisc.edu.
(2)Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin, Madison, 
Wisconsin, USA.
(3)Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, Department of Psychology,
University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wisconsin, USA.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a laboratory nonhuman primate, is a
well-known model of several human diseases and conditions, but the nutritional
needs of these animals are not fully understood. Here we describe a 4-mo
controlled study in which we increased the dietary fat and protein of subadult
male common marmosets by using healthy snacks. Six male marmosets received their 
normal diet (control), and an additional 6 were given their normal diet
supplemented daily with a 14-kcal snack. Cashews and waxworms were used as the
snack, given their high-fat content. Although body weight did not differ between 
the 2 groups, only control male marmosets showed increased chest circumferences
over the course of the study. Glucoregulatory function remained consistent in the
snack-fed marmosets, whereas control animals had progressed toward higher
insulin. Other indices of glucoregulation indicated significant differences in
adiponectin and the cortisol:cortisone ratio between the 2 groups, but no
differences in lipid concentration were detected. Therefore, the most notable
difference attributable to the snack feeding was improved glucoregulation.
Because the snacks we used had a high proportion of unsaturated compared with
saturated fat, we suggest that these healthy high-fat-high-protein snacks provide
an important contribution to the nutrition of this laboratory species. This study
also demonstrates the utility of marmosets as a model for understanding the
implications of dietary fats in humans.


PMCID: PMC3838610
PMID: 24351764  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

