

1475. J Gen Virol. 2014 Mar;95(Pt 3):591-600. doi: 10.1099/vir.0.060384-0. Epub 2013
Dec 9.

Demonstration of marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) as a non-human primate model for 
secondary dengue virus infection: high levels of viraemia and serotype
cross-reactive antibody responses consistent with secondary infection of humans.

Moi ML(1), Takasaki T(1), Omatsu T(2), Nakamura S(3), Katakai Y(4), Ami Y(5),
Suzaki Y(5), Saijo M(1), Akari H(6), Kurane I(7).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Virology I, National Institute of Infectious Diseases, Tokyo,
Japan.
(2)Research and Education Center for Prevention of Global Infectious Diseases of 
Animals, Tokyo University of Agriculture and Technology, Fuchu, Tokyo, Japan.
(3)Research Center for Animal Life Science, Shiga University of Medical Science, 
Otsu, Shiga, Japan.
(4)Laboratory of Disease Control, Tsukuba Primate Research Center, National
Institute of Biomedical Innovation, Ibaraki, Japan.
(5)Division of Experimental Animal Research, National Institute of Infectious
Diseases, Tokyo, Japan.
(6)Section of Comparative Immunology and Microbiology, Center for Human Evolution
Modeling Research Institute, Kyoto University, Inuyama, Aichi, Japan.
(7)National Institute of Infectious Diseases, Tokyo, Japan.

There are four dengue virus (DENV) serotypes. Primary infection with one does not
confer protective immunity against the others. We have reported previously that
the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is a useful primary DENV infection model. It
has been reported that secondary DENV infection with a heterotypic serotype
induces viraemia kinetics and antibody responses that differ from those in
primary infection. Thus, it is important to determine the utility of the marmoset
as a model for secondary DENV infection. Marmosets were infected with
heterologous DENV by secondary inoculation, and viraemia kinetics and antibody
responses were analysed. The marmosets consistently developed high levels of
viraemia after the secondary inoculation with heterologous DENV serotypes. IgM
responses were lower compared with primary inoculation responses, whilst IgG
responses were rapid and high. Neutralizing activities, which possessed serotype 
cross-reactive activities, were detected as early as 4 days after inoculation. In
addition, infectious viraemia titres were higher when assayed with Fcγ
receptor-expressing baby hamster kidney (BHK) cells than when assayed with
conventional BHK cells, suggesting the presence of infectious virus-antibody
immune complexes. After secondary infection with heterotypic DENV, the marmosets 
demonstrated viraemia kinetics, IgM and IgG responses, and high levels of
serotype cross-reactive neutralizing antibody responses, all of which were
consistent with secondary DENV infection in humans. The results indicate the
marmoset as a useful animal for studying secondary, as well as primary, DENV
infection.

DOI: 10.1099/vir.0.060384-0 
PMID: 24323638  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

