

1478. J Neurosci. 2013 Nov 27;33(48):18825-35. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.2414-13.2013.

Auditory artificial grammar learning in macaque and marmoset monkeys.

Wilson B(1), Slater H, Kikuchi Y, Milne AE, Marslen-Wilson WD, Smith K, Petkov
CI.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Neuroscience, and Centre for Behaviour and Evolution, Newcastle
University, Newcastle upon Tyne, NE2 4HH, United Kingdom, Department of
Psychology, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, CB2 3EB, United Kingdom, and
School of Philosophy, Psychology and Language Sciences, University of Edinburgh, 
Edinburgh, EH8 9AD, United Kingdom.

Artificial grammars (AG) are designed to emulate aspects of the structure of
language, and AG learning (AGL) paradigms can be used to study the extent of
nonhuman animals' structure-learning capabilities. However, different AG
structures have been used with nonhuman animals and are difficult to compare
across studies and species. We developed a simple quantitative parameter space,
which we used to summarize previous nonhuman animal AGL results. This was used to
highlight an under-studied AG with a forward-branching structure, designed to
model certain aspects of the nondeterministic nature of word transitions in
natural language and animal song. We tested whether two monkey species could
learn aspects of this auditory AG. After habituating the monkeys to the AG,
analysis of video recordings showed that common marmosets (New World monkeys)
differentiated between well formed, correct testing sequences and those violating
the AG structure based primarily on simple learning strategies. By comparison,
Rhesus macaques (Old World monkeys) showed evidence for deeper levels of AGL. A
novel eye-tracking approach confirmed this result in the macaques and
demonstrated evidence for more complex AGL. This study provides evidence for a
previously unknown level of AGL complexity in Old World monkeys that seems less
evident in New World monkeys, which are more distant evolutionary relatives to
humans. The findings allow for the development of both marmosets and macaques as 
neurobiological model systems to study different aspects of AGL at the neuronal
level.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.2414-13.2013 
PMCID: PMC3841451
PMID: 24285889  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

