

1491. J Toxicol Pathol. 2013 Sep;26(3):301-7. doi: 10.1293/tox.26.301. Epub 2013 Oct
15.

Spontaneous Malignant T Cell Lymphoma in a Young Male Common Marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus).

Yamaguchi I(1), Myojo K, Sanada H, Sudo E, Ootsuka S, Okumura H, Takami A,
Yoneshige T, Suzuki Y, Imaizumi M, Takada C, Kimoto N, Saeki K, Takaba K.

Author information: 
(1)Toxicological Research Laboratories, Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co., Ltd., 1188
Shimotogari, Nagaizumi-cho, Sunto-gun, Shizuoka 411-8731, Japan.

We histopathologically and immunohistochemically investigated a case of malignant
lymphoma that spontaneously developed in a male common marmoset at two years of
age. Beginning at two years four months of age, the animal had an enlargement of 
the submandibular and inguinal lymph nodes, small subcutaneous nodules near the
right breast and an approximately fivefold increase in peripheral lymphocyte
count compared with the previous examination value. The postmortem findings at
two years eight months of age showed lymphadenopathy with enlargement of the
thymus and spleen. Small- to intermediate-sized neoplastic lymphocytes had
diffusely proliferated in the enlarged nodes. The neoplastic cells were
pleomorphic and had irregularly shaped nuclei. The nuclear chromatin staining
revealed hyperchromatism in the small-sized cells, and the intermediate-sized
cells exhibited vesicular staining. An immunohistochemical examination indicated 
that the neoplastic lymphocytes were positive for CD3 and negative for CD20, thus
suggesting that they had originated from T cells. In addition, the proliferation 
of high endothelial venules and reactive epithelioid histiocytes was observed.
Scattered tingible body-laden macrophages were infrequently detected. Neoplastic 
lymphocytes were also observed in the thymus, spleen, heart, lungs, liver,
kidneys, adrenal glands and femoral and sternal bone marrow. This malignant
lymphoma in a young male common marmoset was considered to fit the category of
"peripheral T-cell lymphoma, not otherwise specified (PTCL-NOS)" according to the
new WHO system of classification.

DOI: 10.1293/tox.26.301 
PMCID: PMC3787608
PMID: 24155563 

