

1499. PLoS One. 2013 Oct 9;8(10):e76297. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0076297. eCollection
2013.

Different responses to reward comparisons by three primate species.

Freeman HD(1), Sullivan J, Hopper LM, Talbot CF, Holmes AN, Schultz-Darken N,
Williams LE, Brosnan SF.

Author information: 
(1)Language Research Center, Georgia State University, Atlanta, Georgia, United
States of America ; Lester E. Fisher Center for the Study and Conservation of
Apes, Lincoln Park Zoo, Chicago, Illinois, United States of America.

BACKGROUND: Recently, much attention has been paid to the role of cooperative
breeding in the evolution of behavior. In many measures, cooperative breeders are
more prosocial than non-cooperatively breeding species, including being more
likely to actively share food. This is hypothesized to be due to selective
pressures specific to the interdependency characteristic of cooperatively
breeding species. Given the high costs of finding a new mate, it has been
proposed that cooperative breeders, unlike primates that cooperate in other
contexts, should not respond negatively to unequal outcomes between themselves
and their partner. However, in this context such pressures may extend beyond
cooperative breeders to other species with pair-bonding and bi-parental care.
METHODS: Here we test the response of two New World primate species with
different parental strategies to unequal outcomes in both individual and social
contrast conditions. One species tested was a cooperative breeder (Callithrix
spp.) and the second practiced bi-parental care (Aotus spp.). Additionally, to
verify our procedure, we tested a third confamilial species that shows no such
interdependence but does respond to individual (but not social) contrast (Saimiri
spp.). We tested all three genera using an established inequity paradigm in which
individuals in a pair took turns to gain rewards that sometimes differed from
those of their partners.
CONCLUSIONS: None of the three species tested responded negatively to inequitable
outcomes in this experimental context. Importantly, the Saimiri spp responded to 
individual contrast, as in earlier studies, validating our procedure. When these 
data are considered in relation to previous studies investigating responses to
inequity in primates, they indicate that one aspect of cooperative breeding,
pair-bonding or bi-parental care, may influence the evolution of these behaviors.
These results emphasize the need to study a variety of species to gain insight in
to how decision-making may vary across social structures.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0076297 
PMCID: PMC3794049
PMID: 24130767  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

