

1507. PLoS One. 2013 Sep 30;8(9):e74789. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0074789. eCollection
2013.

In vivo manipulation of γ9(+) T cells in the common marmoset (Callithrix Jacchus)
with phosphoantigen and effect on the progression of respiratory melioidosis.

Laws TR(1), Nelson M, Bonnafous C, Sicard H, Taylor C, Salguero FJ, Atkins TP,
Oyston PC, Rowland CA.

Author information: 
(1)Biomedical Sciences Dept, Defence Science and Technology laboratory (DSTL)
Porton Down, Salisbury, United Kingdom.

Burkholderia pseudomallei is a dangerous human pathogen. Phosphoantigens
specifically the target primate specific γ9(+)δ2(+) T cells subset and some have 
been developed as potential immunotherapeutics. Previously, we demonstrated that,
when stimulated with the phosphoantigen CHDMAPP, γ9(+)δ2(+) T cells aid in the
killing of intracellular B. pseudomallei bacteria. Moreover, we found that common
marmoset (Callithrix Jacchus) γ9(+) T cells increase in frequency and respond to 
the phosphoantigen CHDMAPP and/or B. pseudomallei, in combination with IL-2, in a
similar manner to human γ9(+)δ2(+) T cells. Here we evaluate the efficacy of the 
phosphoantigen CHDMAPP, in combination with IL-2, as a therapy against B.
pseudomallei infection, in vivo. We found that the previous studies predicted the
in vivo responsiveness of γ9(+) T cells to the CHDMAPP+IL-2 treatment and
significant expansion of the numbers of peripheral and splenic γ9(+) T cells were
observed. This effect was similar to those reported in other primate species
treated with phosphoantigen. Furthermore, splenocytes were retrieved 7 days post 
onset of treatment, restimulated with CHDMAPP or heat-killed B. pseudomallei and 
the cultured γ9(+) T cells demonstrated no reduction in IFN-γ response when
CHDMAPP+IL-2 animals were compared to IL-2 only treated animals. Using an
established model of B. pseudomallei infection in the marmoset, we assessed the
potential for using phosphoantigen as a novel immunotherapy. The CHDMAPP
treatment regime had no effect on the progression of respiratory melioidosis and 
this was despite the presence of elevated numbers of γ9(+) T cells in the spleen,
liver and lung and an increased proportion of IFN-γ(+) cells in response to
infection. We therefore report that the common marmoset has proven a good model
for studying the effect in vivo of γ9(+) T cell stimulation; however, γ9(+) T
cells have little or no effect on the progression of lethal, respiratory B.
pseudomallei infection.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0074789 
PMCID: PMC3786980
PMID: 24098670  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

