

1522. J Neural Transm (Vienna). 2014 Feb;121(2):163-9.

Cholinergic manipulation of motor disability and L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia in
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated common marmosets.

Jackson MJ, Swart T, Pearce RK, Jenner P.

Anti-cholinergic drugs are used in the treatment of Parkinson’s disease (PD) and 
they can improve motor disability in some patients and may alter the expression
of dyskinesia. We report the effects of anticholinergic and pro-cholinergic
agents administered alone and combined with L-DOPA, on motor function in
1-methyl-4-phenyl-l,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated common marmosets.
Administration of atropine to MPTP-treated marmosets, not previously exposed to
L-DOPA, improved motor disability but this did not occur with other centrally
acting anti-cholinergics. Motor disability was worsened by centrally acting
pro-cholinergics. However, neither peripherally acting anti- nor pro-cholinergics
produced any effect on motor disability or dyskinesia. In MPTP-treated marmosets 
previously primed with L-DOPA to exhibit dyskinesia, acute L-DOPA challenge
induced both chorea and dystonia. In these animals, centrally acting
anti-cholinergics including atropine and trihexyphenidyl reversed motor deficits,
but induced chorea. Combined with L-DOPA, both centrally and peripherally acting 
anti-cholinergics reduced peak locomotor activity and produced more chorea than
dystonia compared to L-DOPA alone. Centrally acting pro-cholinergics decreased
locomotor activity, worsened motor disability and induced dystonia.
Co-administered with L-DOPA, pro-cholinergics reduced locomotor activity and
decreased chorea while increasing dystonia compared with L-DOPA alone. In
conclusion, anti-cholinergics can increase chorea with and without L-DOPA but
improve motor disability. Pro-cholinergics decrease the proportion of chorea when
combined with L-DOPA, increase motor disability and antagonise L-DOPA’s
effectiveness. These data suggest that there may be a case for revisiting the use
of anti-cholinergic drugs in the treatment of PD.

DOI: 10.1007/s00702-013-1082-1 
PMID: 23959162  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

