

1546. Chronobiol Int. 2013 Jul;30(6):818-27. doi: 10.3109/07420528.2013.767823. Epub
2013 Jun 14.

Socially adjusted synchrony in the activity profiles of common marmosets in
light-dark conditions.

Melo P(1), Gonçalves B, Menezes A, Azevedo C.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Cronobiologia, Departamento de Fisiologia, Universidade Federal
do Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, Rio Grande do Norte, Brazil.

Synchronized state of activity and rest might be attained by mechanisms of
entrainment and masking. Most zeitgebers not only act to entrain but also to mask
circadian rhythms. Although the light-dark (LD) cycle is the main zeitgeber of
circadian rhythms in marmosets, social cues can act as weaker zeitgebers.
Evidence on the effects of social entrainment in marmosets has been collected in 
isolated animals or in pairs where activity is not individually recorded. To
characterize the synchronization between the daily activity profiles of
individuals in groups under LD conditions, the motor activity of animals from
five groups was continuously monitored using actiwatches for 15 days during the
5th, 8th, and 11th months of life of juveniles. Families consisting of twins (4
♂♀/1 ♂♂) and their parents were maintained under controlled lighting (LD
12:12 h), temperature, and humidity conditions. Synchronization was evaluated
through the synchrony between the circadian activity profiles obtained from the
Pearson correlation index between possible pairs of activity profiles in the
light and dark phases. We also calculated the phase-angle differences between the
activity onset of one animal in relation to the activity onset of each animal in 
the group (ψ(on)). A similar procedure was performed for activity offset
(ψ(off)). By visual analysis, the correlation between the activity profiles of
individuals within each family was stronger than that of individuals from
different families. A mixed-model analysis showed that within the group, the
correlation was stronger between twins than between twins and their parents in
all families, except for the family in which both juveniles were males. Because a
twin is an important social partner for juveniles, a sibling is likely to have a 
stronger influence on its twin's activity rhythm than other family members.
Considering only the light phase, the second strongest correlation was observed
between the activity profiles of the individuals in the reproductive pair.
Regarding the parameters ψ(on) and ψ(off), the juvenile/juvenile dyad had lower
values than the other dyads, but these differences did not reach statistical
significance in relation to all dyads. Comparing the results of the ψ(on) and
ψ(off), and correlation indices, we suggest that the latter could detect
differences between the animals that were not observed in the results of the
phase-angle differences. These differences could be related to changes that occur
during the active phase but not only in a particular phase, such as the temporal 
changes during the activity phase that characterize unimodal or bimodal patterns.
Based on the differences in the correlations between individuals subjected to the
same LD routine, we suggest that social cues modulate the circadian activity
profiles of marmosets as a result of interactions between the animals within each
group. Future studies are necessary to characterize the mechanisms of
synchronization that are involved in this social modulation.

DOI: 10.3109/07420528.2013.767823 
PMID: 23767997  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

