

1548. Neurobiol Aging. 2013 Nov;34(11):2659-75. doi:
10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2013.04.020. Epub 2013 May 30.

Macula-less rat and macula-bearing monkey retinas exhibit common lifelong
proteomic changes.

Böhm MR(1), Mertsch S, König S, Spieker T, Thanos S.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Experimental Ophthalmology, School of Medicine,
Westfalian-Wilhelms-University Münster, Münster, Germany.

The visual consequences of age-related alterations in the neural retina have been
well documented, but little is known about their molecular bases. We performed a 
comparative proteomic analysis of the retinas in marmosets and rats to identify
proteins for which the expression profiles are altered with maturation and aging.
Protein profiles were compared in the newborn, juvenile, middle-age, and aged
retinas using 2-dimensional gel electrophoresis. Matrix-assisted desorption
ionization-time-of-flight mass spectrometry revealed common proteins in rats and 
marmosets that exhibited changes in concentration throughout life. Western blot, 
quantitative reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction, and
immunohistochemistry analyses of selected proteins and their mRNA were used to
determine whether the changes identified by proteomics were verifiable at the
cellular and molecular levels. We found 4 proteins common to both species
(Parkinson disease [autosomal recessive, early onset] 7/DJ-1, stathmin,
peroxiredoxin, and β-synuclein) whose concentrations were regulated with age.
These findings were confirmed by Western blot, immunohistochemistry, and
quantitative reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction analyses. The
proteins were localized in certain layers and subsets of cells within the retinas
of both species. The expression of these proteins in the adult human retina was
confirmed with immunohistochemistry. The present study is the first to provide
evidence that the retina is physiologically characterized by specific lifelong
changes in its proteome. These changes are independent of whether the retina
bears a macula, occur in key functional pathways during the processing of visual 
signals, and might be involved in the development of age-related pathologic
entities.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2013.04.020 
PMID: 23726791  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

