

1557. NMR Biomed. 2013 Nov;26(11):1395-402. doi: 10.1002/nbm.2965. Epub 2013 May 22.

An embedded four-channel receive-only RF coil array for fMRI experiments of the
somatosensory pathway in conscious awake marmosets.

Papoti D(1), Yen CC, Mackel JB, Merkle H, Silva AC.

Author information: 
(1)Cerebral Microcirculation Unit, Laboratory of Functional and Molecular
Imaging, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, USA.

fMRI has established itself as the main research tool in neuroscience and brain
cognitive research. The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is a non-human
primate model of increasing interest in biomedical research. However, commercial 
MRI coils for marmosets are not generally available. The present work describes
the design and construction of a four-channel receive-only surface RF coil array 
with excellent signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) specifically optimized for fMRI
experiments in awake marmosets in response to somatosensory stimulation. The
array was designed as part of a helmet-based head restraint system used to
prevent motion during the scans. High SNR was obtained by building the coil array
using a thin and flexible substrate glued to the inner surface of the restraint
helmet, so as to minimize the distance between the array elements and the
somatosensory cortex. Decoupling between coil elements was achieved by partial
geometrical overlapping and by connecting them to home-built low-input-impedance 
preamplifiers. In vivo images show excellent coverage of the brain cortical
surface with high sensitivity near the somatosensory cortex. Embedding the coil
elements within the restraint helmet allowed fMRI data in response to
somatosensory stimulation to be collected with high sensitivity and
reproducibility in conscious, awake marmosets.

Published 2013. This article is a U.S. Government work and is in the public
domain in the USA.

DOI: 10.1002/nbm.2965 
PMCID: PMC4200535
PMID: 23696219  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

