

157. J Comp Neurol. 2021 Aug;529(12):3171-3193. doi: 10.1002/cne.25154. Epub 2021 May 
5.

Expression of cell markers and transcription factors in the avian retina compared
with that in the marmoset retina.

Haverkamp S(1), Albert L(2), Balaji V(2), Němec P(3), Dedek K(2)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Computational Neuroethology, Center of Advanced European Studies
and Research (caesar), Bonn, Germany.
(2)Animal Navigation/Neurosensorics Group, Institute for Biology and
Environmental Sciences, University of Oldenburg, Oldenburg, Germany.
(3)Department of Zoology, Charles University, Prague, Czech Republic.
(4)Research Center Neurosensory Science, University of Oldenburg, Oldenburg,
Germany.

In the vertebrate retina, amacrine and ganglion cells represent the most diverse 
cell classes. They can be classified into different cell types by several
features, such as morphology, light responses, and gene expression profile.
Although birds possess high visual acuity (similar to primates that we used here 
for comparison) and tetrachromatic color vision, data on the expression of
transcription factors in retinal ganglion cells of birds are largely missing. In 
this study, we tested various transcription factors, known to label
subpopulations of cells in mammalian retinae, in two avian species: the common
buzzard (Buteo buteo), a raptor with exceptional acuity, and the domestic pigeon 
(Columba livia domestica), a good navigator and widely used model for visual
cognition. Staining for the transcription factors Foxp2, Satb1 and Satb2 labeled 
most ganglion cells in the avian ganglion cell layer. CtBP2 was established as
marker for displaced amacrine cells, which allowed us to reliably distinguish
ganglion cells from displaced amacrine cells and assess their densities in
buzzard and pigeon. When we additionally compared the temporal and central fovea 
of the buzzard with the fovea of primates, we found that the cellular
organization in the pits was different in primates and raptors. In summary, we
demonstrate that the expression of transcription factors is a defining feature of
cell types not only in the retina of mammals but also in the retina of birds. The
markers, which we have established, may provide useful tools for more detailed
studies on the retinal circuitry of these highly visual animals.

© 2021 The Authors. The Journal of Comparative Neurology published by Wiley
Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.25154 
PMID: 33834511  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

