

1574. J Sex Med. 2013 Jun;10(6):1461-75. doi: 10.1111/jsm.12131. Epub 2013 Apr 2.

Brain region-specific transcriptomic markers of serotonin-1A receptor agonist
action mediating sexual rejection and aggression in female marmoset monkeys.

Aubert Y(1), Allers KA, Sommer B, de Kloet ER, Abbott DH, Datson NA.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Medical Pharmacology, Leiden/Amsterdam Center for Drug Research,
Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, The Netherlands. yvesaubert@gmail.com

INTRODUCTION: In a marmoset model of hypoactive female sexual function, we have
shown that repeated administration of the serotonin (5-HT)-1A agonist
R-(+)-8-hydroxy-2-(di-N-propylamino)tetralin (8-OH-DPAT) inhibits sexual
receptivity in female marmoset monkeys and increases aggression toward the male
pairmate.
AIM: The aims of this study are to investigate gene expression changes induced by
8-OH-DPAT in laser-microdissected brain areas that regulate female sexual
function and to identify genes, functional gene classes, and pathways associated 
with 8-OH-DPAT-mediated inhibition of female sexual receptivity.
METHODS: Gene expression was measured in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC),
medial preoptic area (mPOA), cornu ammonis-1 (CA1) area of the hippocampus (CA1),
and dorsal raphé nucleus (DRN) of four 8-OH-DPAT-treated (0.1 mg/kg; daily
administration for 16 weeks) and four vehicle-treated female marmosets using a
marmoset-specific microarray (European Marmoset Microarray [EUMAMA]) and
validated by real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RTqPCR). Enriched 
functional gene classes were determined. In a parallel candidate gene approach,
the expression of serotonergic candidate genes, i.e., the 5-HT1A, 5-HT2A, and
5-HT7 receptors and the 5-HT transporter (5-HTT), was measured by RTqPCR.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The main outcome is the differential expression of genes
between 8-OH-DPAT- and vehicle-treated marmosets.
RESULTS: 8-OH-DPAT affected the gene classes important to neural development
(mPFC, mPOA, and DRN), neurotransmission (mPOA), energy production (mPFC and
mPOA), learning and memory (CA1), and intracellular signal transduction (DRN).
Oxytocin (OXT) in the mPOA and 5-HTT in the DRN were strongly increased by
8-OH-DPAT. 5-HT1A tended to increase in the mPFC, while 5-HT7 was decreased in
the CA1.
CONCLUSIONS: Brain region-specific alterations of gene expression regulating
neural circuitries, energy demands, and learning processes are associated with
8-OH-DPAT-induced decrease in female sexual receptivity and increase in pairmate 
aggression. The role of OXT in the serotonergic regulation of female sexual
behavior and partner interactions warrants attention in future studies.

© 2013 International Society for Sexual Medicine.

DOI: 10.1111/jsm.12131 
PMID: 23551660  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

