

1587. J Neurophysiol. 2013 Jun;109(11):2732-8. doi: 10.1152/jn.00695.2012. Epub 2013
Mar 13.

Increased neural correlations in primate auditory cortex during slow-wave sleep.

Issa EB(1), Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.

During sleep, changes in brain rhythms and neuromodulator levels in cortex modify
the properties of individual neurons and the network as a whole. In principle,
network-level interactions during sleep can be studied by observing covariation
in spontaneous activity between neurons. Spontaneous activity, however, reflects 
only a portion of the effective functional connectivity that is activated by
external and internal inputs (e.g., sensory stimulation, motor behavior, and
mental activity), and it has been shown that neural responses are less correlated
during external sensory stimulation than during spontaneous activity. Here, we
took advantage of the unique property that the auditory cortex continues to
respond to sounds during sleep and used external acoustic stimuli to activate
cortical networks for studying neural interactions during sleep. We found that
during slow-wave sleep (SWS), local (neuron-neuron) correlations are not reduced 
by acoustic stimulation remaining higher than in wakefulness and rapid eye
movement sleep and remaining similar to spontaneous activity correlations. This
high level of correlations during SWS complements previous work finding elevated 
global (local field potential-local field potential) correlations during sleep.
Contrary to the prediction that slow oscillations in SWS would increase neural
correlations during spontaneous activity, we found little change in neural
correlations outside of periods of acoustic stimulation. Rather, these findings
suggest that functional connections recruited in sound processing are modified
during SWS and that slow rhythms, which in general are suppressed by sensory
stimulation, are not the sole mechanism leading to elevated network correlations 
during sleep.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00695.2012 
PMCID: PMC3680796
PMID: 23486204  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

