

1603. Toxicol Pathol. 2013;41(7):941-50. doi: 10.1177/0192623313477753. Epub 2013 Feb
20.

ACAT-selective and nonselective DGAT1 inhibition: adrenocortical effects--a
cross-species comparison.

Floettmann JE(1), Buckett LK, Turnbull AV, Smith T, Hallberg C, Birch A, Lees D, 
Jones HB.

Author information: 
(1)1Global Safety Assessment, AstraZeneca, Alderley Park, Macclesfield, United
Kingdom.

Acyl-coenzyme A: cholesterol O-Acyltransferase (ACAT) and Acyl-coenzyme A:
diacylglycerol O-acyltransferase (DGAT) enzymes play important roles in
synthesizing neutral lipids, and inhibitors of these enzymes have been
investigated as potential treatments for diabetes and other metabolic diseases.
Administration of a Acyl-coenzyme A: diacylglycerol O-acyltransferase 1 (DGAT1)
inhibitor with very limited cellular selectivity over ACAT resulted in
significant adrenocortical degenerative changes in dogs. These changes included
macrosteatotic vacuolation associated with adrenocyte cell death in the zonae
glomerulosa and fasciculata and minimal to substantial mixed inflammatory cell
infiltration and were similar to those described previously for some ACAT
inhibitors in dogs. In the mouse, similar but only transient adrenocortical
degenerative changes were seen as well as a distinctive nondegenerative reduction
in cortical fine vacuolation. In the marmoset, only the distinctive
nondegenerative reduction in cortical fine vacuolation was observed, suggesting
that the dog, followed by the mouse, is the most sensitive species for cortical
degeneration. Biochemical analysis of adrenal cholesterol and cholesteryl ester
indicated that the distinctive reduction in cortical fine vacuolation correlated 
with a significant reduction in cholesteryl ester in the mouse and marmoset,
whereas no significant reduction in cholestryl ester, but an increase in free
cholesterol was observed in dogs. Administration of a DGAT1 inhibitor with
markedly improved selectivity over ACAT to the marmoset and the mouse resulted in
no adrenal pathology at exposures sufficient to cause substantial DGAT1 but not
ACAT inhibition, thereby implicating ACAT rather than DGAT1 inhibition as the
probable cause of the observed adrenal changes. Recognizing that the distinctive 
nondegenerative reduction in cortical fine vacuolation in the mouse could be used
as a histopathological biomarker for an in vivo model of the more severe changes 
observed in dogs, the mouse has subsequently been used as a model to select DGAT1
inhibitors free of adrenocortical toxicity.

DOI: 10.1177/0192623313477753 
PMID: 23427273  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

