

1604. J Tissue Eng Regen Med. 2015 Apr;9(4):473-9. doi: 10.1002/term.1709. Epub 2013
Feb 18.

Embryonic stem cells of the non-human primate Callithrix jacchus can be
differentiated into definitive endoderm by Activin-A but not IDE-1/2.

Diekmann U(1), Naujok O, Blasczyk R, Müller T.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Clinical Biochemistry, Hannover Medical School, Hannover,
Germany; Institute for Transfusion Medicine, Hannover Medical School, Hannover,
Germany.

Pluripotent stem cells hold great promise for regenerative medicine, due to their
unlimited self-renewal potential and the ability to differentiate into all
somatic cell types. Differences between the rodent disease models and the
situation in humans can be narrowed down with non-human primate models. The
common marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus) is an interesting model for
biomedical research because these animals are easy to breed, get relatively old
(≤ 13 years), are small in size, are relatively cost-effective and have a high
genetic proximity to the human. In particular, diseases of the liver and pancreas
are interesting for cell replacement therapies but the in vitro differentiation
of ESCs into the definitive endoderm germ layer is still a demanding task.
Membrane-permeable, chemically defined small molecules can possibly replace
recombinant growth factors used in most directed differentiation protocols.
However, the potent small molecules IDE-1 and IDE-2 were not able to induce
definitive endoderm-like cells when ESCs from the common marmoset were treated
with these compounds, whereas the recombinant growth factor Activin A could force
the differentiation into this lineage. Our results indicate that ESCs from the
common marmoset are less sensitive or even insensitive to these small molecules. 
Thus, differences between the species of human ESCs and ESCs of this non-human
primate might be a useful model to further evaluate the exact mode of action of
these compounds.

Copyright © 2013 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/term.1709 
PMID: 23418163  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

