

1612. Lipids Health Dis. 2013 Feb 4;12:10. doi: 10.1186/1476-511X-12-10.

Diverse captive non-human primates with phytanic acid-deficient diets rich in
plant products have substantial phytanic acid levels in their red blood cells.

Moser AB(1), Hey J, Dranchak PK, Karaman MW, Zhao J, Cox LA, Ryder OA, Hacia JG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Broad Center for
Regenerative Medicine and Stem Cell Research, University of Southern California, 
Los Angeles, CA 90089, USA.

BACKGROUND: Humans and rodents with impaired phytanic acid (PA) metabolism can
accumulate toxic stores of PA that have deleterious effects on multiple organ
systems. Ruminants and certain fish obtain PA from the microbial degradation of
dietary chlorophyll and/or through chlorophyll-derived precursors. In contrast,
humans cannot derive PA from chlorophyll and instead normally obtain it only from
meat, dairy, and fish products.
RESULTS: Captive apes and Old world monkeys had significantly higher red blood
cell (RBC) PA levels relative to humans when all subjects were fed PA-deficient
diets. Given the adverse health effects resulting from PA over accumulation, we
investigated the molecular evolution of thirteen PA metabolism genes in apes, Old
world monkeys, and New world monkeys. All non-human primate (NHP) orthologs are
predicted to encode full-length proteins with the marmoset Phyh gene containing a
rare, but functional, GA splice donor dinucleotide. Acox2, Scp2, and Pecr
sequences had amino acid positions with accelerated substitution rates while
Amacr had significant variation in evolutionary rates in apes relative to other
primates.
CONCLUSIONS: Unlike humans, diverse captive NHPs with PA-deficient diets rich in 
plant products have substantial RBC PA levels. The favored hypothesis is that
NHPs can derive significant amounts of PA from the degradation of ingested
chlorophyll through gut fermentation. If correct, this raises the possibility
that RBC PA levels could serve as a biomarker for evaluating the digestive health
of captive NHPs. Furthermore, the evolutionary rates of the several genes
relevant to PA metabolism provide candidate genetic adaptations to NHP diets.

DOI: 10.1186/1476-511X-12-10 
PMCID: PMC3571895
PMID: 23379307  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

