

1618. Hum Reprod. 2013 Apr;28(4):886-96. doi: 10.1093/humrep/des465. Epub 2013 Jan 15.

Perinatal germ cell development and differentiation in the male marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus): similarities with the human and differences from the rat.

McKinnell C(1), Mitchell RT, Morris K, Anderson RA, Kelnar CJ, Wallace WH, Sharpe
RM.

Author information: 
(1)MRC/University of Edinburgh Centre for Reproductive Health, The Queen's
Medical Research Institute, Edinburgh, UK. c.mckinnell@ed.ac.uk

STUDY QUESTION: Is perinatal germ cell (GC) differentiation in the marmoset
similar to that in the human?
SUMMARY ANSWER: In a process comparable with the human, marmoset GC differentiate
rapidly after birth, losing OCT4 expression after 5-7 weeks of age during
mini-puberty.
WHAT IS KNOWN ALREADY: Most of our understanding about perinatal GC development
derives from rodents, in which all gonocytes (undifferentiated GC) co-ordinately 
lose expression of the pluripotency factor OCT4 and stop proliferating in late
gestation. Then after birth these differentiated GC migrate to the basal lamina
and resume proliferation prior to the onset of spermatogenesis. In humans, fetal 
GC differentiation occurs gradually and asynchronously and OCT4(+) GC persist
into perinatal life. Failure to switch off OCT4 in GC perinatally can lead to
development of carcinoma in situ (CIS), the precursor of testicular germ cell
cancer (TGCC), for which there is no animal model. Marmosets show similarities to
the human, but systematic evaluation of perinatal GC development in this species 
is lacking. Similarity, especially for loss of OCT4 expression, would support use
of the marmoset as a model for the human and for studying CIS origins.
STUDY DESIGN, SIZE AND DURATION: Testis tissues were obtained from marmosets (n =
4-10 per age) at 12-17 weeks' gestation and post-natal weeks 0.5, 2.5, 5-7, 14
and 22 weeks, humans at 15-18 weeks' gestation (n = 5) and 4-5 weeks of age (n = 
4) and rats at embryonic day 21.5 (e21.5) (n = 3) and post-natal days 4, 6 and 8 
(n = 4 each).
PARTICIPANTS/MATERIALS, SETTING AND METHODS: Testis sections from fetal and
post-natal marmosets, humans and rats were collected and immunostained for OCT4
and VASA to identify undifferentiated and differentiated GC, respectively, and
for Ki67, to identify proliferating GC. Stereological quantification of GC
numbers, differentiation (% OCT4(+) GC) and proliferation were performed in
perinatal marmosets and humans. Quantification of GC position within seminiferous
cords was performed in marmosets, humans and rats.
MAIN RESULTS AND ROLE OF CHANCE: The total GC number increased 17-fold from birth
to 22 post-natal weeks in marmosets; OCT4(+) and VASA(+) GC proliferated equally 
in late gestation and early post-natal life. The percentage of OCT4(+) GC fell
from 54% in late fetal life to <0.5% at 2.5 weeks of age and none were detected
after 5-7 weeks in marmosets. In humans, the percentage of OCT4(+) GC also
declined markedly during the equivalent period. In marmosets, GC had begun
migrating to the base of seminiferous cords at ∼22 weeks of age, after the loss
of GC OCT4 expression.
LIMITATIONS, REASONS FOR CAUTION: There is considerable individual variation
between marmosets. Although GC development in marmosets and humans was similar,
there are differences with respect to proliferation during fetal life. The number
of human samples was limited.
WIDER IMPLICATIONS OF THE FINDINGS: The similarities in testicular GC
differentiation between marmosets and humans during the perinatal period, and
their differences from rodents, suggest that the marmoset may be a useful model
for studying the origins of CIS, with relevance for the study of TGCC.
STUDY FUNDING/COMPETING INTERESTS: This work was supported by Grant G33253 from
the Medical Research Council, UK. No external funding was sought and there are no
competing interests.

DOI: 10.1093/humrep/des465 
PMCID: PMC3600838
PMID: 23321215  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

