

1619. Eur J Neurosci. 2013 Apr;37(7):1072-89. doi: 10.1111/ejn.12117. Epub 2013 Jan 13.

Organisation of koniocellular-projecting ganglion cells and diffuse bipolar cells
in the primate fovea.

Percival KA(1), Martin PR, Grünert U.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Save Sight Institute, The University of
Sydney, Sydney, NSW 2001, Australia.

The roles of the midget and parasol pathways as the anatomical foundation for
high-acuity vision at the fovea are well established. There is also evidence for 
the presence of other (non-midget, non-parasol) ganglion cell types in the foveal
retina, but it is not established whether these cells receive input from cone
photoreceptors in the central few degrees of the visual field, i.e. the region
most important for conscious visual perception. To address this question, we
targeted injections of retrograde tracer to the koniocellular layers in the
posterior aspect of the lateral geniculate nucleus, where the central visual
field is represented, in marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus). Labeled ganglion 
cells were photofilled to reveal their dendritic morphology. Potential inputs to 
foveal koniocellular cells from diffuse bipolar cells were investigated in
vertical sections through the fovea of marmoset and macaque (Macaca fascicularis)
monkey retinas using immunohistochemistry. Forty koniocellular-projecting
ganglion cells were analysed. We used an established model of marmoset foveal
topography to show that all these koniocellular-projecting cells receive cone
inputs from the central-most 6°, with about half the cells receiving input from
below 2° eccentricity, in the rod-free central bouquet of cones at the foveola.
In addition, all diffuse bipolar types investigated were present in the fovea at 
stratification depths similar to those of their counterparts in the peripheral
retina. We conclude that the diverse visual representations established for
koniocellular pathways in the peripheral retina are also a feature of the fovea, 
suggesting that koniocellular pathways contribute to foveal vision.

© 2013 Federation of European Neuroscience Societies and Blackwell Publishing
Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/ejn.12117 
PMID: 23311464  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

