

1623. Eur J Neurosci. 2013 Mar;37(6):924-41. doi: 10.1111/ejn.12092. Epub 2012 Dec 21.

Auditory cortex of the marmoset monkey - complex responses to tones and
vocalizations under opiate anaesthesia in core and belt areas.

Rajan R(1), Dubaj V, Reser DH, Rosa MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Clayton, Vic., 3800, Australia.
Ramesh.Rajan@monash.edu

Many anaesthetics commonly used in auditory research severely depress cortical
responses, particularly in the supragranular layers of the primary auditory
cortex and in non-primary areas. This is particularly true when stimuli other
than simple tones are presented. Although awake preparations allow better
preservation of the neuronal responses, there is an inherent limitation to this
approach whenever the physiological data need to be combined with histological
reconstruction or anatomical tracing. Here we tested the efficacy of an
opiate-based anaesthetic regime to study physiological responses in the primary
auditory cortex and middle lateral belt area. Adult marmosets were anaesthetized 
using a combination of sufentanil (8 μg/kg/h, i.v.) and N2 O (70%). Unit activity
was recorded throughout the cortical layers, in response to auditory stimuli
presented binaurally. Stimuli consisted of a battery of tones presented at
different intensities, as well as two marmoset calls ('Tsik' and 'Twitter'). In
addition to robust monotonic and non-monotonic responses to tones, we found that 
the neuronal activity reflected various aspects of the calls, including 'on' and 
'off' components, and temporal fluctuations. Both phasic and tonic activities, as
well as excitatory and inhibitory components, were observed. Furthermore, a late 
component (100-250 ms post-offset) was apparent. Our results indicate that the
sufentanil/N2 O combination allows better preservation of response patterns in
both the core and belt auditory cortex, in comparison with anaesthetics usually
employed in auditory physiology. This anaesthetic regime holds promise in
enabling the physiological study of complex auditory responses in acute
preparations, combined with detailed anatomical and histological investigation.

© 2012 Federation of European Neuroscience Societies and Blackwell Publishing
Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/ejn.12092 
PMID: 23278961  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

