

1624. J Neurophysiol. 2013 Mar;109(6):1638-57. doi: 10.1152/jn.00698.2012. Epub 2012
Dec 28.

Comparison of auditory-vocal interactions across multiple types of vocalizations 
in marmoset auditory cortex.

Eliades SJ(1), Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland, USA.
seliades@jhu.edu

Auditory-vocal interaction, the modulation of auditory sensory responses during
vocal production, is an important but poorly understood neurophysiological
phenomenon in nonhuman primates. This sensory-motor processing has important
behavioral implications for self-monitoring during vocal production as well as
feedback-mediated vocal control for both animals and humans. Previous studies in 
marmosets have shown that a large portion of neurons in the auditory cortex are
suppressed during self-produced vocalization but have primarily focused on a
single type of isolation vocalization. The present study expands previous
analyses to compare auditory-vocal interaction of cortical responses between
different types of vocalizations. We recorded neurons from the auditory cortex of
unrestrained marmoset monkeys with implanted electrode arrays and showed that
auditory-vocal interactions generalize across vocalization types. We found the
following: 1) Vocal suppression and excitation are a general phenomenon,
occurring for all four major vocalization types. 2) Within individual neurons,
suppression was the more general response, occurring for multiple vocalization
types, while excitation tended to be more specific to a single vocalization type.
3) A subset of neurons changed their responses between different types of
vocalization, most often from strong suppression or excitation for one
vocalization to unresponsive for another, and only rarely from suppression to
excitation. 4) Differences in neural responses between vocalization types were
weakly correlated with passive response properties, measured by playbacks of
acoustic stimuli including recorded vocalizations. These results indicate that
vocalization-induced modulation of the auditory cortex is a general phenomenon
applicable to all vocalization types, but variations within individual neurons
suggest possible vocalization-specific coding.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00698.2012 
PMCID: PMC3602939
PMID: 23274315  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

