

1636. PLoS One. 2012;7(11):e49469. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0049469. Epub 2012 Nov 14.

Efficient derivation of multipotent neural stem/progenitor cells from non-human
primate embryonic stem cells.

Shimada H(1), Okada Y, Ibata K, Ebise H, Ota S, Tomioka I, Nomura T, Maeda T,
Kohda K, Yuzaki M, Sasaki E, Nakamura M, Okano H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, School of Medicine, Keio University, Tokyo, 
Japan.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is a small New World primate that has
been used as a non-human primate model for various biomedical studies. We
previously demonstrated that transplantation of neural stem/progenitor cells
(NS/PCs) derived from mouse and human embryonic stem cells (ESCs) and induced
pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) promote functional locomotor recovery of mouse
spinal cord injury models. However, for the clinical application of such a
therapeutic approach, we need to evaluate the efficacy and safety of pluripotent 
stem cell-derived NS/PCs not only by xenotransplantation, but also
allotransplantation using non-human primate models to assess immunological
rejection and tumorigenicity. In the present study, we established a culture
method to efficiently derive NS/PCs as neurospheres from common marmoset ESCs.
Marmoset ESC-derived neurospheres could be passaged repeatedly and showed
sequential generation of neurons and astrocytes, similar to that of mouse
ESC-derived NS/PCs, and gave rise to functional neurons as indicated by calcium
imaging. Although marmoset ESC-derived NS/PCs could not differentiate into
oligodendrocytes under default culture conditions, these cells could abundantly
generate oligodendrocytes by incorporating additional signals that recapitulate
in vivo neural development. Moreover, principal component analysis of microarray 
data demonstrated that marmoset ESC-derived NS/PCs acquired similar gene
expression profiles to those of fetal brain-derived NS/PCs by repeated passaging.
Therefore, marmoset ESC-derived NS/PCs may be useful not only for accurate
evaluation by allotransplantation of NS/PCs into non-human primate models, but
are also applicable to analysis of iPSCs established from transgenic disease
model marmosets.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0049469 
PMCID: PMC3498141
PMID: 23166679  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

