

1650. PLoS One. 2012;7(10):e46371. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0046371. Epub 2012 Oct 8.

PET analysis of dopaminergic neurodegeneration in relation to immobility in the
MPTP-treated common marmoset, a model for Parkinson's disease.

Ando K(1), Obayashi S, Nagai Y, Oh-Nishi A, Minamimoto T, Higuchi M, Inoue T,
Itoh T, Suhara T.

Author information: 
(1)Central Institute for Experimental Animals, Kawasakiku, Kawasaki, Kanagawa,
Japan. ando@ciea.or.jp

BACKGROUND: Positron Emission Tomography (PET) measurement was applied to the
brain of the common marmoset, a small primate species, treated with
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP). The marmoset shows prominent
Parkinson's disease (PD) signs due to dopaminergic neural degeneration. Recently,
the transgenic marmoset (TG) carrying human PD genes is developing. For
phenotypic evaluations of TG, non-invasive PET measurement is considered to be
substantially significant. As a reference control for TG, the brain of the
MPTP-marmoset as an established and valid model was scanned by PET. Behavioral
analysis was also performed by recording locomotion of the MPTP-marmoset, as an
objective measure of PD signs.
METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: MARMOSETS RECEIVED SEVERAL MPTP REGIMENS (SINGLE 
MPTP REGIMEN: 2 mg/kg, s.c., per day for 3 consecutive days) were used for PET
measurement and behavioral observation. To measure immobility as a central PD
sign, locomotion of marmosets in their individual living cages were recorded
daily by infrared sensors. Daily locomotion counts decreased drastically after
MPTP regimens and remained diminished for several months or more. PET scan of the
brain, using [(11)C]PE2I as a ligand of the dopamine (DA) transporter, was
performed once several months after the last MPTP regimen. The mean binding
potential (BP(ND)) in the striatum (putamen and caudate) of the MPTP-marmoset
group was significantly lower than that of the MPTP-free control group (n=5 for
each group). In the MPTP-marmosets, the decrease of BP(ND) in the striatum
closely correlated with the decrease in locomotion counts (r=0.98 in putamen and 
0.91 in caudate).
CONCLUSION/SIGNIFICANCE: The present characterization of neural degeneration
using non-invasive PET imaging and of behavioral manifestation in the MPTP
marmoset mimics typical PD characteristics and can be useful in evaluating the
phenotype of TG marmosets being developed.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0046371 
PMCID: PMC3466292
PMID: 23056291  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

