

1661. PLoS One. 2012;7(8):e43709. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0043709. Epub 2012 Aug 28.

LPS-induced lung inflammation in marmoset monkeys - an acute model for
anti-inflammatory drug testing.

Seehase S(1), Lauenstein HD, Schlumbohm C, Switalla S, Neuhaus V, Förster C,
Fieguth HG, Pfennig O, Fuchs E, Kaup FJ, Bleyer M, Hohlfeld JM, Braun A, Sewald
K, Knauf S.

Author information: 
(1)Airway Research, Fraunhofer Institute for Toxicology and Experimental
Medicine, Hannover, Germany.

Increasing incidence and substantial morbidity and mortality of respiratory
diseases requires the development of new human-specific anti-inflammatory and
disease-modifying therapeutics. Therefore, new predictive animal models that
closely reflect human lung pathology are needed. In the current study, a tiered
acute lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced inflammation model was established in
marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) to reflect crucial features of inflammatory
lung diseases. Firstly, in an ex vivo approach marmoset and, for the purposes of 
comparison, human precision-cut lung slices (PCLS) were stimulated with LPS in
the presence or absence of the phosphodiesterase-4 (PDE4) inhibitor roflumilast. 
Pro-inflammatory cytokines including tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) and
macrophage inflammatory protein-1 beta (MIP-1β) were measured. The corticosteroid
dexamethasone was used as treatment control. Secondly, in an in vivo approach
marmosets were pre-treated with roflumilast or dexamethasone and unilaterally
challenged with LPS. Ipsilateral bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) was conducted 18
hours after LPS challenge. BAL fluid was processed and analyzed for neutrophils, 
TNF-α, and MIP-1β. TNF-α release in marmoset PCLS correlated significantly with
human PCLS. Roflumilast treatment significantly reduced TNF-α secretion ex vivo
in both species, with comparable half maximal inhibitory concentration (IC(50)). 
LPS instillation into marmoset lungs caused a profound inflammation as shown by
neutrophilic influx and increased TNF-α and MIP-1β levels in BAL fluid. This
inflammatory response was significantly suppressed by roflumilast and
dexamethasone. The close similarity of marmoset and human lungs regarding
LPS-induced inflammation and the significant anti-inflammatory effect of approved
pharmaceuticals assess the suitability of marmoset monkeys to serve as a
promising model for studying anti-inflammatory drugs.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0043709 
PMCID: PMC3429492
PMID: 22952743  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

