

1681. PLoS One. 2012;7(7):e41175. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0041175. Epub 2012 Jul 31.

The natural history of class I primate alcohol dehydrogenases includes gene
duplication, gene loss, and gene conversion.

Carrigan MA(1), Uryasev O, Davis RP, Zhai L, Hurley TD, Benner SA.

Author information: 
(1)Foundation for Applied Molecular Evolution, Gainesville, Florida, United
States of America. mcarrigan@ffame.org

BACKGROUND: Gene duplication is a source of molecular innovation throughout
evolution. However, even with massive amounts of genome sequence data,
correlating gene duplication with speciation and other events in natural history 
can be difficult. This is especially true in its most interesting cases, where
rapid and multiple duplications are likely to reflect adaptation to rapidly
changing environments and life styles. This may be so for Class I of alcohol
dehydrogenases (ADH1s), where multiple duplications occurred in primate lineages 
in Old and New World monkeys (OWMs and NWMs) and hominoids.
METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: To build a preferred model for the natural
history of ADH1s, we determined the sequences of nine new ADH1 genes, finding for
the first time multiple paralogs in various prosimians (lemurs, strepsirhines).
Database mining then identified novel ADH1 paralogs in both macaque (an OWM) and 
marmoset (a NWM). These were used with the previously identified human paralogs
to resolve controversies relating to dates of duplication and gene conversion in 
the ADH1 family. Central to these controversies are differences in the topologies
of trees generated from exonic (coding) sequences and intronic sequences.
CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: We provide evidence that gene conversions are the
primary source of difference, using molecular clock dating of duplications and
analyses of microinsertions and deletions (micro-indels). The tree topology
inferred from intron sequences appear to more correctly represent the natural
history of ADH1s, with the ADH1 paralogs in platyrrhines (NWMs) and catarrhines
(OWMs and hominoids) having arisen by duplications shortly predating the
divergence of OWMs and NWMs. We also conclude that paralogs in lemurs arose
independently. Finally, we identify errors in database interpretation as the
source of controversies concerning gene conversion. These analyses provide a
model for the natural history of ADH1s that posits four ADH1 paralogs in the
ancestor of Catarrhine and Platyrrhine primates, followed by the loss of an ADH1 
paralog in the human lineage.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0041175 
PMCID: PMC3409193
PMID: 22859968  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

