

1686. Behav Brain Res. 2012 Dec 1;235(2):113-23. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2012.07.033. Epub
2012 Jul 28.

Remote long-term registrations of sleep-wake rhythms, core body temperature and
activity in marmoset monkeys.

Hoffmann K(1), Coolen A, Schlumbohm C, Meerlo P, Fuchs E.

Author information: 
(1)Clinical Neurobiology Laboratory, German Primate Center, Göttingen, Germany.
kplassmann@cnl-dpz.de

Initial studies in the day active marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus) indicate
that the sleep-wake cycle of these non-human primates resembles that of humans
and therefore conceivably represent an appropriate model for human sleep. The
methods currently employed for sleep studies in marmosets are limited. The
objective of this study was to employ and validate the use of specific remote
monitoring system technologies that enable accurate long-term recordings of
sleep-wake rhythms and the closely related rhythms of core body temperature (CBT)
and locomotor activity in unrestrained group-housed marmosets. Additionally, a
pilot sleep deprivation (SD) study was performed to test the recording systems in
an applied experimental setup. Our results show that marmosets typically exhibit 
a monophasic sleep pattern with cyclical alternations between NREM and REM sleep.
CBT displays a pronounced daily rhythm and locomotor activity is primarily
restricted to the light phase. SD caused an immediate increase in NREM sleep time
and EEG slow-wave activity as well as a delayed REM sleep rebound that did not
fully compensate for REM sleep that had been lost during SD. In conclusion, the
combination of two innovative technical approaches allows for simultaneous
measurements of CBT, sleep cycles and activity in multiple subjects. The
employment of these systems represents a significant refinement in terms of
animal welfare and will enable many future applications and longitudinal studies 
of circadian rhythms in marmosets.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2012.07.033 
PMID: 22850608  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

