

1687. Brain Behav Evol. 2012;80(1):26-40. doi: 10.1159/000338014. Epub 2012 Jul 27.

Can we measure brain efficiency? An empirical test with common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus).

Strasser A(1), Burkart JM.

Author information: 
(1)Anthropological Institute and Museum, University of Zürich, Zürich,
Switzerland. drewstrasser@aim.uzh.ch

Various measures of brain size correlate with cognitive performance; however, the
fit is not perfect, which bears the question of whether brains also vary in
efficiency. Such variation could be expected if a species faces constraints on
brain enlargement, for example due to the impossibility of slowing down life
history as a consequence of predator pressure, while simultaneously experiencing 
selective benefits from enhanced cognitive ability related to particular
ecological or social conditions. Arguably, this applies to callitrichid monkeys
and would lead to the prediction that their relatively small brains are
particularly efficient in comparison to their sister taxa, Cebus. This study
investigated whether callitrichids' cognitive performance is better than would be
expected given their brain size rather than comparing absolute performance
between the taxa. As a measure of cognitive performance, we used the reversal
learning paradigm, which is reliably and closely associated with brain size
across primate taxa, and assessed performance in this paradigm (transfer index)
in 14 common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) as representatives of the
callitrichids. These marmosets were found to show higher performance than would
be expected for their brain size, and this relative performance was also higher
than the relative performance in capuchin monkeys. We outline how these effects
may be due to the cooperative breeding system of the callitrichids, particularly 
the enhancement of behavioural and cognitive propensities associated with shared 
care and provisioning.

Copyright © 2012 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000338014 
PMID: 22846401  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

