

1688. J Immunol Methods. 2012 Oct 31;384(1-2):81-91. doi: 10.1016/j.jim.2012.07.012.
Epub 2012 Jul 25.

A new method for quantitative analysis of the T cell receptor V region
repertoires in healthy common marmosets by microplate hybridization assay.

Kitaura K(1), Fujii Y, Matsutani T, Shirai K, Suzuki S, Takasaki T, Shimada S,
Kametani Y, Shiina T, Takabayashi S, Katoh H, Ogasawara K, Kurane I, Suzuki R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Rheumatology and Clinical Immunology, Clinical Research Center
for Allergy and Rheumatology, Sagamihra National Hospital, National Hospital
Organization, Kanagawa, Japan.

The common marmoset, Callithrix jacchus, is one of the smallest primates and is
increasingly used for an experimental nonhuman primate model in many research
fields. Analysis of T cell receptor (TCR) repertoires is a powerful tool to
investigate T cell immunity in terms of antigen specificity and variability of
TCR expression. However, monoclonal antibodies specific for many TCR Vα or Vβ
chains have not been created. We have recently identified a large number of TCRα 
chain variable (TRAV) and TCRβ chain variable (TRBV) sequences from a cDNA
library of common marmosets. The purpose of this study is to develop a new method
for analysis of TCR repertoires in the common marmoset using this sequence
information. This method is based on a microplate hybridization technique using
32 TRAV-specific and 32 TRBV-specific oligoprobes following an adaptor-ligation
PCR. This enables the easy quantitation of the respective TRAV and TRBV
expression levels. No cross-hybridization among specific-oligoprobes and very low
variances in repeated measures of the same samples was found, demonstrating high 
specificity and reproducibility. Furthermore, this method was validated by an
antihuman Vβ23 antibody which specifically bound to marmoset Vβ23. Using this
method, we analyzed TCR repertoires from various tissue samples (PBMCs, spleen,
lymph node and thymus) and isolated T cell subpopulations (CD4+CD8+, CD4+CD8− and
CD4−CD8+) from the thymus of 10 common marmosets. Neither tissue-specific nor T
cell subpopulation-specific differences was found in TRAV and TRBV repertoires.
These results suggest that, unlike mice, TCR repertoires in the common marmoset
are not affected by endogenous superantigens and are conserved among individuals,
among tissues, and among T cell subpopulations. Thus, TCR repertoire analysis
with high specificity and reproducibility is a very useful technique, with the
potential to replace flow cytometric analysis using a panel of TRV-specific
antibodies, many of which remain unavailable.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jim.2012.07.012 
PMID: 22841578  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

