

172. Anim Cogn. 2021 Sep;24(5):1039-1056. doi: 10.1007/s10071-021-01497-1. Epub 2021
Mar 16.

Watching others in a positive state does not induce optimism bias in common
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus), but leads to behaviour indicative of competition.

Adriaense JEC(1)(2)(3), Šlipogor V(4)(5), Hintze S(6), Marshall L(7), Lamm C(8), 
Bugnyar T(4).

Author information: 
(1)Evolutionary Cognition Group, Department of Anthropology, University of
Zürich, Zürich, Switzerland. jessie.adriaense@uzh.ch.
(2)Department of Behavioral and Cognitive Biology, Faculty of Life Sciences,
University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria. jessie.adriaense@uzh.ch.
(3)Social, Cognitive and Affective Neuroscience Unit, Department of Cognition,
Emotion, and Methods in Psychology, Faculty of Psychology, University of Vienna, 
Vienna, Austria. jessie.adriaense@uzh.ch.
(4)Department of Behavioral and Cognitive Biology, Faculty of Life Sciences,
University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria.
(5)Department of Zoology, University of South Bohemia, Budweiss, Czech Republic.
(6)Division of Livestock Sciences, Department of Sustainable Agricultural
Systems, University of Natural Resources and Life Sciences (BOKU), Vienna,
Austria.
(7)Bristol Veterinary School, Langford House, University of Bristol, Bristol, UK.
(8)Social, Cognitive and Affective Neuroscience Unit, Department of Cognition,
Emotion, and Methods in Psychology, Faculty of Psychology, University of Vienna, 
Vienna, Austria.

Emotional contagion is suggested to facilitate group life by enhancing
synchronized responses to the environment. Cooperative breeders are an example of
a social system that requires such intricate coordination between individuals.
Therefore, we studied emotional contagion in common marmosets by means of a
judgement bias test. Demonstrators were exposed to an emotion manipulation (i.e.,
positive, negative, control), and observers perceived only the demonstrator's
behaviour. We predicted that the positive or negative states of the demonstrator 
would induce matching states in the observer, indicating emotional contagion. All
subjects' emotional states were assessed through behaviour and cognition, the
latter by means of a judgement bias test. Behavioural results showed a successful
emotion manipulation of demonstrators, with manipulation-congruent expressions
(i.e., positive calls in the positive condition, and negative calls and
pilo-erect tail in the negative condition). Observers showed no
manipulation-congruent expressions, but showed more scratching and arousal after 
the positive manipulation. Concerning the judgement bias test, we predicted that 
subjects in a positive state should increase their response to ambiguous cues
(i.e., optimism bias), and subjects in a negative state should decrease their
response (i.e., pessimism bias). This prediction was not supported as neither
demonstrators nor observers showed such bias in either manipulation. Yet,
demonstrators showed an increased response to the near-positive cue, and
additional analyses showed unexpected responses to the reference cues, as well as
a researcher identity effect. We discuss all results combined, including recently
raised validation concerns of the judgement bias test, and inherent challenges to
empirically studying emotional contagion.

© 2021. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s10071-021-01497-1 
PMCID: PMC8360889
PMID: 33725202  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

