

1720. Islets. 2012 Mar-Apr;4(2):123-9. doi: 10.4161/isl.19254. Epub 2012 Mar 1.

Islet microarchitecture and glucose transporter expression of the pancreas of the
marmoset monkey display similarities to the human.

Plentz RR(1), Palagani V, Wiedemann A, Diekmann U, Glage S, Naujok O, Jörns A,
Müller T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Hannover Medical School, Hannover, Germany.

The common marmoset New World monkey (Callithrix jacchus), is a primate model
with great potential for scientific research, including research on diabetes.
However, in opposite to Rhesus and Java monkeys (Macaca mulatta and Macaca
fascicularis) little is known about the marmosets islet microarchitecture,
glucose transporter and pancreatic marker gene expression. In this work we
analyze differences and similarities in size, shape, cellular composition and
intra-islet topography between the common marmoset and the human endocrine
pancreas. Different sized, circular and a-circular shaped islets of the common
marmoset and human display α-cells in the whole islet organ leading to a
ribbon-like islet type. The number of islets was significantly higher in the
common marmoset compared with humans. However, the area of insulin-producing
cells was significantly higher in the human pancreas. Intra-islet distribution
pattern of δ- and β-cells was similar in both species. The morphology of the
exocrine pancreas regarding acinar and ductal cells was quite similar as
confirmed by ultrastructural analysis. Additionally the ultrastructure of
secretory granules from α-, δ- and β-cells of human and non-human primate
pancreas showed the same characteristics. Molecular analysis showed the presence 
of endocrine pancreatic marker genes like PMCA2, NCX1, SUR1, KIR6.2, MAFA, NGN3
and PDX1 also expressed in the human. For the first time we could show presence
of Glut 5 and 9 transporters in addition to the low abundance transporter Glut2
and the highly expressed Glut1 glucose transporter. We propose that Callithrix
jacchus displays a new animal model for diabetes research and regenerative
medicine.

DOI: 10.4161/isl.19254 
PMID: 22627676  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

