

1737. Biol Psychiatry. 2012 Aug 15;72(4):266-72. doi: 10.1016/j.biopsych.2012.03.007.
Epub 2012 Apr 12.

Lesions of ventrolateral prefrontal or anterior orbitofrontal cortex in primates 
heighten negative emotion.

Agustín-Pavón C(1), Braesicke K, Shiba Y, Santangelo AM, Mikheenko Y, Cockroft G,
Asma F, Clarke H, Man MS, Roberts AC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Development and Neuroscience, University of
Cambridge, Cambridge, United Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: Heightened fear and anxiety are core symptoms of a variety of
neuropsychiatric disorders. They are associated with structural and activity
changes throughout neural circuitry that includes the ventral and medial
prefrontal cortices (PFC), the amygdala, and hippocampus. Although the
contributions of the medial PFC, amygdala, and hippocampus to fear and anxiety
have been studied extensively with animal models, the selective roles of the
ventral PFC-including the ventrolateral prefrontal cortex (vlPFC) and
orbitofrontal cortex-are poorly understood.
METHODS: We investigated the effects of selective excitotoxic lesions of either
the vlPFC or anterior orbitofrontal cortex (antOFC) on anxious behavior and
Pavlovian conditioned autonomic and behavioral fear responses in the New World
primate, the common marmoset.
RESULTS: Both vlPFC and antOFC lesions resulted in stronger, less adaptable
conditioned fear responses. They also heightened the anxiety responses of a
marmoset to a human intruder. In contrast, only a lesion of the vlPFC affected
the coping style that a marmoset displayed in the presence of the human intruder,
increasing the likelihood of proactive mobbing.
CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that both the antOFC and vlPFC can
downregulate fear and anxiety and, together, provide necessary but independent
contributions to the top-down control of negative emotion.

Copyright © 2012 Society of Biological Psychiatry. Published by Elsevier Inc. All
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopsych.2012.03.007 
PMID: 22502990  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

