

1752. Hum Reprod. 2012 Jun;27(6):1754-67. doi: 10.1093/humrep/des091. Epub 2012 Mar 22.

Misleading and reliable markers to differentiate between primate testis-derived
multipotent stromal cells and spermatogonia in culture.

Eildermann K(1), Gromoll J, Behr R.

Author information: 
(1)German Primate Center, Leibniz Institute for Primate Research, Kellnerweg 4,
Göttingen, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Several studies have reported the generation of spermatogonia-derived
pluripotent stem cells from human testes. The initial aim of the present study
was the derivation of equivalent stem cells from an established and
experimentally accessible non-human primate model, the common marmoset monkey
(Callithrix jacchus). However, an essential prerequisite in the absence of
transgenic reporters in primates and man is the availability of validated
endogenous markers for the identification of specific cell types in vitro.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We cultured marmoset testicular cells in a similar way to
that described for human testis-derived pluripotent cells and set out to
characterize these cultures under different conditions and in differentiation
assays applying established marker panels. Importantly, the cells emerged as
testicular multipotent stromal cells (TMSCs) instead of (pluripotent) germ
cell-derived cells. TMSCs expressed many markers such as GFR-α, GPR125, THY-1
(CD90), ITGA6, SSEA4 and TRA-1-81, which were considered as spermatogonia
specific and were previously used for the enrichment or characterization of
spermatogonia. Proliferation of TMSCs was highly dependent on basic fibroblast
growth factor, a growth factor routinely present in germ cell culture media. As
reliable markers for the distinction between spermatogonia and TMSCs, we
established VASA, in combination with the spermatogonia-expressed factors,
MAGEA4, PLZF and SALL4.
CONCLUSIONS: Marmoset monkey TMSCs and spermatogonia exhibit an overlap of
markers, which may cause erroneous interpretations of experiments with
testis-derived stem cells in vitro. We provide a marker panel for the unequivocal
identification of spermatogonia providing a better basis for future studies on
primate, including human, testis-derived stem cells.

DOI: 10.1093/humrep/des091 
PMCID: PMC3357197
PMID: 22442249  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

