

1754. BMC Genomics. 2012 Mar 19;13:98. doi: 10.1186/1471-2164-13-98.

Quantitative molecular assessment of chimerism across tissues in marmosets and
tamarins.

Sweeney CG(1), Curran E, Westmoreland SV, Mansfield KG, Vallender EJ.

Author information: 
(1)New England Primate Research Center, Harvard Medical School, One Pine Hill
Drive, Southborough, MA 01772, USA.

BACKGROUND: Marmosets are playing an increasingly large and important role in
biomedical research. They share genetic, anatomical, and physiological
similarities with humans and other primate model species, but their smaller
sizes, reproductive efficiency, and amenability to genetic manipulation offer an 
added practicality. While their unique biology can be exploited to provide
insights into disease and function, it is also important that researchers are
aware of the differences that exist between marmosets and other species. The New 
World monkey family Callitrichidae, containing both marmoset and tamarin species,
typically produces dizygotic twins that show chimerism in the blood and other
cells from the hematopoietic lineage. Recently, a study extended these findings
to identify chimerism in many tissues, including somatic tissues from other
lineages and germ cells. This has raised the intriguing possibility that
chimerism may play an increasingly pervasive role in marmoset biology, ranging
from natural behavioral implications to increased variability and complexity in
biomedical studies.
RESULTS: Using a quantitative PCR based methodology, Y-chromosomes can be
reliably detected in the females with male fraternal twins allowing for a
relative quantification of chimerism levels between individuals and tissues. With
this approach in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) and cotton-top tamarins
(Saguinus oedipus), chimerism was detected across a broad array of tissues.
Chimerism levels were significantly higher in tissues primarily derived from the 
hematopoietic lineage, while they were lower, though still detectable, in tissues
with other origins. Interestingly, animals with a characteristic marmoset wasting
disease show higher levels of chimerism in those tissues affected. Fibroblast
cell lines from chimeric individuals, however, are not found to be chimeric
themselves.
CONCLUSION: Taken together, the levels of chimerism in tissues of different
origins coupled with other lines of evidence suggest that indeed only
hematopoietic cell lineages are chimeric in callitrichids. The chimerism detected
in other tissues is likely the result of blood or lymphocytic infiltration. Using
molecular methods to detect chimerism in a tissue sample seems to have allowed a 
substantial increase in the ability to detect these minor cell populations.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2164-13-98 
PMCID: PMC3337283
PMID: 22429831  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

