

1755. Brain Nerve. 2012 Mar;64(3):245-54.

[Hepatocyte growth factor therapy for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis].

[Article in Japanese]

Aoki M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Tohoku University School of Medicine, Japan.

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is an adult-onset neurodegenerative disorder 
characterized by the death of upper and lower motor neurons. Approximately 20% of
familial ALS cases are caused by mutations in the superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1)
gene. We generated rats that express a human SOD1 transgene with two different
ALS-associated mutations and found that these rats develop remarkable motor
neuron degeneration and paralysis. This rat model, because of the larger size of 
the animals as compared to ALS-affected mice, will facilitate studies involving
manipulation of the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) (e.g., implantation of intrathecal 
catheters for chronic therapeutic studies; CSF sampling) or spinal cord (e.g.,
direct administration of viral- and cell-mediated therapies). The hepatocyte
growth factor (HGF) is one of the most potent survival-promoting factors for
motor neurons. To examine its protective effect on motor neurons and its
therapeutic potential, we administered human recombinant HGF (hrHGF) to the
transgenic rats, by continuous intrathecal delivery, for 4 weeks from the onset
of paralysis. Intrathecal administration of hrHGF attenuated motor neuron
degeneration and prolonged the duration of the disease 62.7% compared with the
contrast group. Our results indicated the therapeutic efficacy of continuous
intrathecal administration of hrHGF in ALS rats. To explore the potential use of 
this treatment strategy in humans, we induced a contusive cervical spinal cord
injury in the common marmoset, a primate, and then administered hrHGF
intrathecally. The intrathecal administration of hrHGF promoted functional
recovery. These projects have been supported by the "Super Special Consortium for
Supporting the Development of Cutting-edge Medical Care" (tokku), a special
program organized by the Cabinet Office of the Japanese government (research
representative: Hideyuki Okano, M.D., Ph.D., Professor at Keio University).


PMID: 22402718  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

