

1774. J Comp Psychol. 2013 May;127(2):212-25. doi: 10.1037/a0026392. Epub 2012 Jan 16.

Group service in macaques (Macaca fuscata), capuchins (Cebus apella) and
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus): a comparative approach to identifying proactive
prosocial motivations.

Burkart JM(1), van Schaik C.

Author information: 
(1)Anthropological Institute and Museum, University of Zurich, Zurich,
Switzerland. Judith.Burkart@aim.uzh.ch

Proactive, that is, spontaneous, prosociality reflects a psychological interest
in the welfare of others and has been reported in callitrichid monkeys, capuchin 
monkeys (Cebus apella), and humans, but not in chimpanzees. One explanation for
the co-occurrence of proactive prosociality in these species is that it is linked
to shared infant care (cooperative breeding); alternatively, it might merely
reflect unusually high social tolerance or be mediated by advanced cognitive
abilities. To date, distinguishing between these alternative explanations is
difficult, partly because available evidence is restricted to only a handful of
species and partly because methodological differences thwart comparisons across
studies. Here, we present an experimental paradigm called group service, which
allows estimation of both social tolerance and proactive prosociality in group
settings. Its simplicity makes it intuitively plausible to subjects and allows
testing a broad variety of species, including in zoos. We applied the test to
independently breeding Japanese macaques (Macaca fuscata), cooperatively breeding
common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus), and capuchin monkeys with an intermediate 
breeding system. Social tolerance was slightly higher in marmosets than capuchins
and much higher in both compared to macaques, but only marmosets provided a
service to other group members. Furthermore, we validated the group service
paradigm in the common marmosets by comparing their performance to earlier data. 
Although our results are consistent with the cooperative breeding hypothesis, a
comprehensive evaluation requires adding data from additional groups and species,
which should be facilitated by the group service approach.

DOI: 10.1037/a0026392 
PMID: 22250970  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

