

1789. PLoS One. 2011;6(11):e27706. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0027706. Epub 2011 Nov 29.

Human hepatocyte growth factor promotes functional recovery in primates after
spinal cord injury.

Kitamura K(1), Fujiyoshi K, Yamane J, Toyota F, Hikishima K, Nomura T, Funakoshi 
H, Nakamura T, Aoki M, Toyama Y, Okano H, Nakamura M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Keio University School of Medicine,
Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo, Japan.

Many therapeutic interventions for spinal cord injury (SCI) using neurotrophic
factors have focused on reducing the area damaged by secondary, post-injury
degeneration, to promote functional recovery. Hepatocyte growth factor (HGF),
which is a potent mitogen for mature hepatocytes and a mediator of the
inflammatory responses to tissue injury, was recently highlighted as a potent
neurotrophic factor in the central nervous system. We previously reported that
introducing exogenous HGF into the injured rodent spinal cord using a herpes
simplex virus-1 vector significantly reduces the area of damaged tissue and
promotes functional recovery. However, that study did not examine the therapeutic
effects of administering HGF after injury, which is the most critical issue for
clinical application. To translate this strategy to human treatment, we induced a
contusive cervical SCI in the common marmoset, a primate, and then administered
recombinant human HGF (rhHGF) intrathecally. Motor function was assessed using an
original open field scoring system focusing on manual function, including
reach-and-grasp performance and hand placement in walking. The intrathecal rhHGF 
preserved the corticospinal fibers and myelinated areas, thereby promoting
functional recovery. In vivo magnetic resonance imaging showed significant
preservation of the intact spinal cord parenchyma. rhHGF-treatment did not give
rise to an abnormal outgrowth of calcitonin gene related peptide positive fibers 
compared to the control group, indicating that this treatment did not induce or
exacerbate allodynia. This is the first study to report the efficacy of rhHGF for
treating SCI in non-human primates. In addition, this is the first presentation
of a novel scale for assessing neurological motor performance in non-human
primates after contusive cervical SCI.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0027706 
PMCID: PMC3226561
PMID: 22140459  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

