

1817. J Exp Biol. 2011 Nov 1;214(Pt 21):3619-29. doi: 10.1242/jeb.056101.

Vocal control by the common marmoset in the presence of interfering noise.

Roy S(1), Miller CT, Gottsch D, Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA.

The natural environment is inherently noisy with acoustic interferences. It is,
therefore, beneficial for a species to modify its vocal production to effectively
communicate in the presence of interfering noises. Non-human primates have been
traditionally considered to possess limited voluntary vocal control, but little
is known about their ability to modify vocal behavior when encountering
interfering noises. Here we tested the ability of the common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus) to control the initiation of vocalizations and maintain vocal
interactions between pairs in an acoustic environment in which the length and
predictability (periodic or random aperiodic occurrences) of interfering noise
bursts were varied. Despite the presence of interfering noise, the marmosets
continued to engage in antiphonal calling behavior. Results showed that the
overwhelming majority of calls were initiated during silence gaps even when the
length of the silence gap following each noise burst was unpredictable. During
the periodic noise conditions, as the length of the silence gap decreased, the
latency between the end of noise burst and call onset decreased significantly. In
contrast, when presented with aperiodic noise bursts, the marmosets chose to call
predominantly during long (4 and 8 s) over short (2 s) silence gaps. In the 8 s
periodic noise conditions, a marmoset pair either initiated both calls of an
antiphonal exchange within the same silence gap or exchanged calls in two
consecutive silence gaps. Our findings provide compelling evidence that common
marmosets are capable of modifying their vocal production according to the
dynamics of their acoustic environment during vocal communication.

DOI: 10.1242/jeb.056101 
PMCID: PMC3192021
PMID: 21993791  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

