

182. J Med Primatol. 2021 Jun;50(3):157-163. doi: 10.1111/jmp.12518. Epub 2021 Feb 21.

Hematology and blood chemistry reference values of free-ranging Callithrix
geoffroyi in Urban environment in Espírito Santo state, Brazil.

Gariglio ACRS(1), Boere V(2), Malukiewicz J(3), Abreu Fonseca L(4), Calais A
Jr(5), Silva IO(2).

Author information: 
(1)Post Graduate Program in Animal Biology, Universidade Federal de Viçosa,
Viçosa, MG, Brazil.
(2)Instituto de Humanidades, Artes e Ciências, Universidade Federal do Sul da
Bahia, Campus Jorge Amado, Itabuna, BA, Brazil.
(3)Primate Genetics Laboratory, German Primate Research Center, Leibniz Institute
for Primate Research, Goettingen, Germany.
(4)Department of Veterinary Medicine, Universidade Federal de Viçosa, Viçosa, MG,
Brazil.
(5)Post Graduate Program in Animal Science, Universidade Estadual do Norte
Fluminense, Campos dos Goytacazes, RJ, Brazil.

BACKGROUND: The Callithrix geoffroyi are increasingly present in Brazilian urban 
areas, where they are vulnerable to health problems. The purpose of this study
was a description of hematology and nine blood chemistry parameters of
free-ranging C. geoffroyi.
METHODS: Thirty individuals were captured in urban-forested settings. The
marmosets were anesthetized, venopunctioned, and released shortly after recovery.
The analysis was carried on in a veterinary laboratory, using automatic cells
counter, staining methods, and an automatic biochemical analyzer.
RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS: Male and female free-ranging C. geoffroyi have similar
hematological and blood chemistry values. The adults presented higher
concentrations of erythrocytes (P <.02) and hemoglobin (P <.02) than young
marmosets. The platelet concentration was lower (P <.05) in adults comparing to
young marmosets. There were not statistically significant differences between
young and adult blood chemistry concentrations. This is the first time that are
presented hematology and blood biochemistry data on free-ranging C. geoffroyi.

© 2021 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jmp.12518 
PMID: 33615486  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

