

1842. Comp Med. 2011 Jun;61(3):278-84.

Colonization with nontuberculous mycobacteria is associated with positive
tuberculin skin test reactions in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Wachtman LM(1), Miller AD, Xia D, Curran EH, Mansfield KG.

Author information: 
(1)New England Primate Research Center, Harvard Medical School, Southborough,
Massachusetts, USA. Lynn_wachtman@hms.harvard.edu

Mycobacterium tuberculosis infections can result in significant morbidity and
mortality in nonhuman primate colonies. Preventative health programs designed to 
detect infection routinely include tuberculin skin testing (TST). Because
Mammalian Old Tuberculin used for TST contains antigens common to a variety of
mycobacterial species, false-positive results can occur in animals sensitized to 
nontuberculous mycobacteria (NTM). Over 11 mo, a large colony of common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus) demonstrated a 3.6% prevalence of equivocal or positive TST 
reactions (termed 'suspect reactions'). Culture of gastric aspirates,
bronchoalveolar lavage fluid, and feces revealed a single animal with a positive 
fecal culture for Mycobacterium gordonae. PCR amplification of M. gordonae DNA in
feces collected from animals with suspect TST reactions (demonstrating a 66.7%
colonization rate) and colony controls (demonstrating a 14.3% colonization rate) 
revealed a significant association between suspect TST reactions and intestinal
colonization. Gross and histopathologic evaluation revealed a multifocal
lymphadenopathy and granulomatous lymphadenitis in 2 of 4 TST-positive marmosets 
examined. Counter to expectations, granulomatous lymphoid tissue was
culture-positive for M. kansasii rather than M. gordonae. Detection of M.
gordonae in the feces of TST-suspect animals likely represents an apathogenic
intestinal colonization that may serve as an indicator of NTM exposure, whereas
evidence of histopathologic disease is associated with the more pathogenic M.
kansasii. Although a high index of suspicion for M. tuberculosis should always be
maintained, colonization with NTM organisms represents a cause of suspect TST
reactions in common marmosets.

Copyright 2011 by the American Association for Laboratory Animal Science


PMCID: PMC3123762
PMID: 21819699  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

