

1864. Physiol Behav. 2011 Oct 24;104(5):955-61. doi: 10.1016/j.physbeh.2011.06.014.
Epub 2011 Jun 25.

Social isolation affects partner-directed social behavior and cortisol during
pair formation in marmosets, Callithrix geoffroyi.

Smith AS(1), Birnie AK, French JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology and Callitrichid Research Facility, University of
Nebraska at Omaha, Omaha, NE, United States. asmith@neuro.fsu.edu

Pair-bonded relationships form during periods of close spatial proximity and high
sociosexual contact. Like other monogamous species, marmosets form new social
pairs after emigration or ejection from their natal group resulting in periods of
social isolation. Thus, pair formation often occurs following a period of social 
instability and a concomitant elevation in stress physiology. Research is needed 
to assess the effects that prolonged social isolation has on the behavioral and
cortisol response to the formation of a new social pair. We examined the
sociosexual behavior and cortisol during the first 90-days of cohabitation in
male and female Geoffroy's tufted-ear marmosets (Callithrix geoffroyi) paired
either directly from their natal group (Natal-P) or after a prolonged period of
social isolation (ISO-P). Social isolation prior to pairing seemed to influence
cortisol levels, social contact, and grooming behavior; however, sexual behavior 
was not affected. Cortisol levels were transiently elevated in all paired
marmosets compared to natal-housed marmosets. However, ISO-P marmosets had higher
cortisol levels throughout the observed pairing period compared to Natal-P
marmoset. This suggests that the social instability of pair formation may lead to
a transient increase in hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis activity while 
isolation results in a prolonged HPA axis dysregulation. In addition, female
social contact behavior was associated with higher cortisol levels at the onset
of pairing; however, this was not observed in males. Thus, isolation-induced
social contact with a new social partner may be enhanced by HPA axis activation, 
or a moderating factor.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.physbeh.2011.06.014 
PMCID: PMC3183141
PMID: 21712050  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

