

187. Elife. 2021 Feb 1;10. pii: e59272. doi: 10.7554/eLife.59272.

Dual midbrain and forebrain origins of thalamic inhibitory interneurons.

Jager P(1), Moore G(2)(3), Calpin P(4), Durmishi X(1), Salgarella I(1), Menage
L(1), Kita Y(5), Wang Y(5), Kim DW(6), Blackshaw S(6), Schultz SR(2), Brickley
S(3), Shimogori T(5), Delogu A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Basic and Clinical Neuroscience, Institute of Psychiatry,
Psychology and Neuroscience, King's College London, London, United Kingdom.
(2)Department of Bioengineering, Imperial College London, London, United Kingdom.
(3)Department of Life Sciences and Centre for Neurotechnology, Imperial College
London, London, United Kingdom.
(4)Department of Physics and Astronomy, University College London, London, United
Kingdom.
(5)RIKEN, Center for Brain Science (CBS), Saitama, Japan.
(6)The Solomon H. Snyder Department of Neuroscience, School of Medicine, Johns
Hopkins University, Baltimore, United States.

The ubiquitous presence of inhibitory interneurons in the thalamus of primates
contrasts with the sparsity of interneurons reported in mice. Here, we identify a
larger than expected complexity and distribution of interneurons across the mouse
thalamus, where all thalamic interneurons can be traced back to two developmental
programmes: one specified in the midbrain and the other in the forebrain.
Interneurons migrate to functionally distinct thalamocortical nuclei depending on
their origin: the abundant, midbrain-derived class populates the first and higher
order sensory thalamus while the rarer, forebrain-generated class is restricted
to some higher order associative regions. We also observe that markers for the
midbrain-born class are abundantly expressed throughout the thalamus of the New
World monkey marmoset. These data therefore reveal that, despite the broad
variability in interneuron density across mammalian species, the blueprint of the
ontogenetic organisation of thalamic interneurons of larger-brained mammals
exists and can be studied in mice.

© 2021, Jager et al.

DOI: 10.7554/eLife.59272 
PMCID: PMC7906600
PMID: 33522480  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: PJ, GM, PC, XD, IS, LM, YK, YW, DK, SB, SS, SB,
TS, AD No competing interests declared

