

1872. Rev Soc Bras Med Trop. 2011 May-Jun;44(3):356-63. Epub 2011 May 27.

[Risks of transmitting rabies virus from captive domiciliary common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus) to human beings, in the metropolitan region of Fortaleza,
state of Ceará, Brazil].

[Article in Portuguese]

Aguiar TD(1), Costa EC, Rolim BN, Romijn PC, Morais NB, Teixeira MF.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Virologia, Universidade Estadual do Ceará, Fortaleza, CE.
labovirfavetuece@yahoo.com.br

INTRODUCTION: In the State of Ceará, a new variant of the rabies virus was
identified associated with cases of human rabies transmitted by common marmosets 
(Callithrix jacchus), which are frequently kept as pets. This new variant does
not present antigenic proximity or genetic relationship to variants of the virus 
isolated from bats and terrestrial mammals from the American continent. The
present study aimed to evaluate the risk factors of rabies virus transmission
from common marmosets (C. jacchus) maintained as pets in the metropolitan region 
of Fortaleza, State of Ceará, Brazil, to human beings.
METHODS: A questionnaire focusing on animal management and interaction between
humans and primates was applied to individuals who had marmosets in the
municipalities of Aquiraz and Maranguape. In order to evaluate the presence of
rabies antigens by direct immunofluorescence test (DIF), samples of saliva were
collected from domiciliary captive marmosets. Based on the detection of rabies
antigens, biopsy samples of central nervous system (CNS) were analyzed.
RESULTS: Analysis of questionnaire data verified that a close relation exists
between humans and their pet marmosets, especially during management practices.
Additionally, these people showed minimal knowledge regarding rabies, which
represents a greater risk of infection. Of the 29 saliva samples evaluated, one
(3.4%) was positive for DIF reaction and of the 11 CNS samples, three (27.3%)
were positive.
CONCLUSIONS: Laboratory data are in agreement with the questionnaire findings,
which confirm an increased risk of rabies virus transmission due to the close
relation between humans and marmosets.

DOI: 10.1590/s0037-86822011005000031 
PMID: 21625806  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

