

1891. J Morphol. 2011 Jul;272(7):833-49. doi: 10.1002/jmor.10951. Epub 2011 Apr 15.

The functional morphology of the anterior masticatory apparatus in tree-gouging
marmosets (Cebidae, Primates).

Hogg RT(1), Ravosa MJ, Ryan TM, Vinyard CJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology and Anatomical Sciences, University of Missouri,
Columbia, MO, USA. hoggr@health.missouri.edu

Although all genera of Callitrichinae feed on tree exudates, marmosets
(Callithrix and Cebuella) use specialized anterior teeth to gouge holes in trees 
and actively stimulate exudate flow. Behavioral studies demonstrate that
marmosets use large jaw gapes but do not appear to generate large bite forces
(relative to maximal ability) during gouging. Nonetheless, the anterior teeth of 
marmosets likely experience different loads during gouging compared to nongouging
platyrrhines. We use histological data from sectioned teeth, μCTs of jaws and
teeth, and in vitro tests of symphyseal strength to compare the anterior
masticatory apparatus in Callithrix to nongouging tamarins (Saguinus) and other
cebids. We test the hypotheses that (1) marmoset anterior teeth are adapted to
accommodate relatively high stresses linked to dissipating gouging forces and (2)
the mandibular symphysis does not provide increased load resistance ability
compared with closely related nongouging platyrrhines. Differences in decussation
between Callithrix and Saguinus are greatest in the anterior teeth, suggesting an
increased load resistance ability specifically in incisor and canine enamel of
Callithrix. Callithrix lower incisor crowns are labiolingually thicker suggesting
increased bending resistance in this plane and improved wedging ability compared 
with Saguinus. Anterior tooth roots are larger relative to symphyseal bone volume
in Callithrix. Anterior tooth root surface areas also are larger in marmosets for
their symphyseal volume, but it remains unclear whether this relative increase is
an adaptation for dissipating dental stresses versus a growth-related byproduct
of relatively elongated incisors. Finally, simulated jaw loading suggests a
reduced ability to withstand external forces in the Callithrix symphysis. The
contrast between increased load resistance ability in the anterior dentition
versus relatively reduced symphyseal strength (1) suggests a complex loading
environment during gouging, (2) highlights the possibility of distinct loading
patterns in the anterior teeth versus the symphysis, and (3) points to a
potential mosaic pattern of dentofacial adaptations to tree gouging.

Copyright © 2011 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jmor.10951 
PMID: 21500248  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

