

1898. J Comp Neurol. 2011 Aug 1;519(11):2135-53. doi: 10.1002/cne.22586.

Synaptic inputs to two types of koniocellular pathway ganglion cells in marmoset 
retina.

Percival KA(1), Martin PR, Grünert U.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Save Sight Institute, University of Sydney,
Australia.

The retinal connectivity of the diverse group of cells contributing to
koniocellular visual pathways (widefield ganglion cells) is largely unexplored.
Here we examined the synaptic inputs onto two koniocellular-projecting ganglion
cell types named large sparse and broad thorny cells. Ganglion cells were labeled
by retrograde tracer injections targeted to koniocellular layer K3 in the lateral
geniculate nucleus in marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) and subsequently
photofilled. Retinal preparations were processed with antibodies against the
C-terminal binding protein 2, the AMPA receptor subunit GluR4, and against CD15
to identify bipolar (excitatory) and/or antibodies against gephyrin to identify
amacrine (inhibitory) input. Large sparse cells are narrowly stratified close to 
the ganglion cell layer. Broad thorny ganglion cells are broadly stratified in
the center of the inner plexiform layer. Bipolar input to large sparse cells
derives from DB6 and maybe other ON bipolar types, whereas that to broad thorny
cells derives from ON and OFF bipolar cell types. The total number of putative
synapses on broad thorny cells is higher than the number on large sparse cells
but the density of inputs (between 2 and 5 synapses per 100 μm(2) dendritic area)
is similar for the two cell types, indicating that the larger number of synapses 
on broad thorny cells is attributable to the larger membrane surface area of this
cell type. Synaptic input density is comparable to previous values for
midget-parvocellular and parasol-magnocellular pathway cells. This suggests
functional differences between koniocellular, parvocellular, and magnocellular
pathways do not arise from variation in synaptic input densities.

Copyright © 2011 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.22586 
PMID: 21452222  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

