

190. Anim Microbiome. 2021 Jan 5;3(1):1. doi: 10.1186/s42523-020-00062-4.

Changes in the faecal microbiome of pied tamarins (Saguinus bicolor) associated
with chronic, recurrent diarrhoea and weight loss.

Richards-Rios P(1), Wigley P(2), López J(3), Wormell D(4), Barbón A(4).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Veterinary Science, University of Liverpool, Liverpool, UK.
prich@liverpool.ac.uk.
(2)Institute of Infection and Global Health, University of Liverpool, Liverpool, 
UK.
(3)Chester Zoo, Chester, UK.
(4)Durrell Wildlife Conservation Trust, Channel Islands, Jersey, France.

BACKGROUND: Chronic recurrent diarrhoea and weight loss is a common problem in
captive callitrichids. These symptoms are common clinical features of marmoset
wasting syndrome (MWS), a chronic enteric inflammation of unknown aetiology
associated with mortality in captive marmosets. The unknown aetiology of the
condition presents problems for conservation projects where affected colonies
present higher mortality and lower birth rates. Since a role for the microbiome
has been established in chronic enteric inflammation of other species it is
possible that the intestinal microbiome undergoes similar changes during MWS.
RESULTS: The faecal microbiome of pied tamarins (Saguinus bicolor) at Jersey Zoo 
was determined using 16S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing to compare the composition
of the faecal microbiome of tamarins affected by chronic recurrent diarrhoea and 
weight loss with unaffected individuals. Affected individuals had a higher
relative abundance of amplicon sequence variants assigned to Lactobacillus and
Helicobacter jaachi while unaffected individuals had a higher relative abundance 
of some Lachnospiraceae and Ruminococcaceae.
CONCLUSIONS: Although Helicobacter has been shown to reside in healthy wild and
captive marmosets and tamarins and appears to form part of the normal microbiota,
the results of this study raise the prospect that certain species of Helicobacter
may be associated with chronic, recurrent diarrhoea in captive callitrichids. The
presence of Lactobacillus may also play a role in the development of MWS. Since
depletion of Lachnospiraceae and Ruminococcaceae have been linked to chronic
gastrointestinal inflammation in humans, this feature of the microbiome of
affected tamarins provides another avenue of further research in the pathogenesis
of MWS.

DOI: 10.1186/s42523-020-00062-4 
PMCID: PMC7934480
PMID: 33500002 

