

1905. J Neurosci. 2011 Mar 16;31(11):4290-7. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.5066-10.2011.

Dopamine, but not serotonin, regulates reversal learning in the marmoset caudate 
nucleus.

Clarke HF(1), Hill GJ, Robbins TW, Roberts AC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 
3EB, United Kingdom. hfc23@cam.ac.uk

Studies of visual discrimination reversal learning have revealed striking
neurochemical dissociations at the level of the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) with
serotoninergic, but not dopaminergic, integrity being important for successful
reversal learning. These findings have considerable implications for disorders
such as obsessive compulsive disorder and schizophrenia, in which reversal
learning is impaired, and which are primarily treated with drugs targeting the
dopaminergic and serotoninergic systems. Dysfunction in such disorders however,
is not limited to the OFC and extends subcortically to other structures
implicated in reversal learning, such as the medial caudate nucleus. Therefore,
because the roles of the serotonin and dopamine within the caudate nucleus are
poorly understood, this study compared the effects of selective serotoninergic or
selective dopaminergic depletions of the marmoset medial caudate nucleus on
serial discrimination reversal learning. All monkeys were able to learn novel
stimulus-reward associations but, unlike control monkeys and monkeys with
selective serotoninergic medial caudate depletions, dopamine-depleted monkeys
were markedly impaired in their ability to reverse this association. This
impairment was not perseverative in nature. These findings are the opposite of
those seen in the OFC and provide evidence for a neurochemical double
dissociation between the OFC and medial caudate in the regulation of reversal
learning. Although the specific contributions of these monoamines within the
OFC-striatal circuit remain to be elucidated, these findings have profound
implications for the development of drugs designed to remediate some of the
cognitive processes underlying impaired reversal learning.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.5066-10.2011 
PMCID: PMC3083841
PMID: 21411670  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

