

1914. Oncogene. 2011 Jun 30;30(26):2921-32. doi: 10.1038/onc.2011.16. Epub 2011 Feb 14.

Functional interaction of Ugene and EBV infection mediates tumorigenic effects.

Wang LT(1), Lin CS, Chai CY, Liu KY, Chen JY, Hsu SH.

Author information: 
(1)Graduate Institute of Medicine, College of Medicine, Kaohsiung Medical
University, Kaohsiung, Taiwan.

Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) infection is associated with many human neoplasms, in
which EBV-derived latent membrane protein-1 (LMP1) appears to be critical, but
its exact oncogenic mechanism remains to be defined. To this end, our initial
microarray analyses identified a LMP1-inducible gene, Ugene, originally
characterized as a binding partner for uracil DNA glycosylase 2, which is highly 
expressed in malignant colon cancer. In this report, it was found that Ugene,
designated herein as LMP1-induced protein (LMPIP), was induced, in a
time-dependent manner, in EBV-infected peripheral blood mononuclear cells and
LMP1-transfected 293 cells. Functionally, when compared with mock-transfected
cells, overexpression of LMPIP in nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) cell lines
resulted in a decrease in reactive oxygen species production and maintained
mitochondria membrane potential (Δψ) loss induced by H(2)O(2). The NPC cells
transfected with LMPIP also showed a decrease in G1 population and an increase in
the cell population in sub-G1 and multiploid phase, concomitant with increased
levels of cell cycle activators, including cyclin D1 and CDK4. In contrast,
silencing of LMPIP expression in the NPC tumor cell lines with short hairpin RNA 
interference revealed significantly decreased cell population at G1/S phase,
while the number of cells in multiploid phase increased. Significantly, NPC cells
with LMPIP knock-down also showed a decrease in tumorigenic and transforming
activity induced by ectopic LMP1 expression, as determined by analyses of soft
agar foci and tumor size in nude mice. Further, elevated LMPIP expression was
also noted in cytoplasm and nuclei in EBV-infected NPC tumor cell mass and
non-EBV-infected tumor cell lines. These results suggested that LMPIP may have an
important mediator role in EBV-mediated neoplasm and may serve as a new target
for therapy of tumors induced by EBV infection.

DOI: 10.1038/onc.2011.16 
PMID: 21317926  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

