

1922. Nucleic Acids Res. 2011 May;39(9):3710-23. doi: 10.1093/nar/gkq1325. Epub 2011
Jan 18.

Species-specific microRNA roles elucidated following astrocyte activation.

Mor E(1), Cabilly Y, Goldshmit Y, Zalts H, Modai S, Edry L, Elroy-Stein O,
Shomron N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell and Developmental Biology, Sackler Faculty of Medicine,
George S. Wise Faculty of Life Sciences, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv 69978,
Israel.

MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are short non-coding RNAs that play a central role in
regulation of gene expression by binding to target genes. Many miRNAs were
associated with the function of the central nervous system (CNS) in health and
disease. Astrocytes are the CNS most abundant glia cells, providing support by
maintaining homeostasis and by regulating neuronal signaling, survival and
synaptic plasticity. Astrocytes play a key role in repair of brain insults, as
part of local immune reactivity triggered by inflammatory or pathological
conditions. Thus, astrocyte activation, or astrogliosis, is an important outcome 
of the innate immune response, which can be elicited by endotoxins such as
lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and cytokines such as interferon-gamma (IFN-γ). The
involvement of miRNAs in inflammation and stress led us to hypothesize that
astrogliosis is mediated by miRNA function. In this study, we compared the miRNA 
regulatory layer expressed in primary cultured astrocyte derived from rodents
(mice) and primates (marmosets) brains upon exposure to LPS and IFN-γ. We
identified subsets of differentially expressed miRNAs some of which are shared
with other immunological related systems while others, surprisingly, are mouse
and rat specific. Of interest, these specific miRNAs regulate genes involved in
the tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) signaling pathway, indicating a
miRNA-based species-specific regulation. Our data suggests that miRNA function is
more significant in the mechanisms governing astrocyte activation in rodents
compared to primates.

© The Author(s) 2011. Published by Oxford University Press.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/gkq1325 
PMCID: PMC3089466
PMID: 21247879  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

