

1928. Behav Brain Funct. 2011 Jan 4;7:1. doi: 10.1186/1744-9081-7-1.

Activity-dependent regulation of MHC class I expression in the developing primary
visual cortex of the common marmoset monkey.

Ribic A(1), Flügge G, Schlumbohm C, Mätz-Rensing K, Walter L, Fuchs E.

Author information: 
(1)German Primate Center/Leibniz Institute for Primate Research, Göttingen,
Germany. aribic@cnl-dpz.de

BACKGROUND: Several recent studies have highlighted the important role of
immunity-related molecules in synaptic plasticity processes in the developing and
adult mammalian brains. It has been suggested that neuronal MHCI (major
histocompatibility complex class I) genes play a role in the refinement and
pruning of synapses in the developing visual system. As a fast evolutionary rate 
may generate distinct properties of molecules in different mammalian species, we 
studied the expression of MHCI molecules in a nonhuman primate, the common
marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus).
METHODS AND RESULTS: Analysis of expression levels of MHCI molecules in the
developing visual cortex of the common marmoset monkeys revealed a distinct
spatio-temporal pattern. High levels of expression were detected very early in
postnatal development, at a stage when synaptogenesis takes place and ocular
dominance columns are formed. To determine whether the expression of MHCI
molecules is regulated by retinal activity, animals were subjected to monocular
enucleation. Levels of MHCI heavy chain subunit transcripts in the visual cortex 
were found to be elevated in response to monocular enucleation. Furthermore, MHCI
heavy chain immunoreactivity revealed a banded pattern in layer IV of the visual 
cortex in enucleated animals, which was not observed in control animals. This
pattern of immunoreactivity indicated that higher expression levels were
associated with retinal activity coming from the intact eye.
CONCLUSIONS: These data demonstrate that, in the nonhuman primate brain,
expression of MHCI molecules is regulated by neuronal activity. Moreover, this
study extends previous findings by suggesting a role for neuronal MHCI molecules 
during synaptogenesis in the visual cortex.

DOI: 10.1186/1744-9081-7-1 
PMCID: PMC3023691
PMID: 21205317  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

