

193. NPJ Parkinsons Dis. 2021 Jan 21;7(1):9. doi: 10.1038/s41531-020-00150-x.

Dysregulation of epithelial ion transport and neurochemical changes in the colon 
of a parkinsonian primate.

Coletto E(#)(1), Tough IR(#)(2), Pritchard S(3), Hikima A(1), Jackson MJ(1),
Jenner P(1), Ray Chaudhuri K(4)(5), Cox HM(2), Iravani MM(6), Rose S(7).

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Diseases Research Group, Institute of Cancer and
Pharmaceutical Sciences, Faculty of Life Sciences and Medicine, King's College
London, London, SE1 1UL, UK.
(2)Wolfson Centre for Age-Related Diseases, IoPPN, King's College London, Guy's
Campus, London, SE1 1UL, UK.
(3)Department of Clinical and Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of
Hertfordshire, Hatfield, AL10 9AB, UK.
(4)Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology & Neuroscience, King's College London,
London, SE5 8AF, UK.
(5)Parkinson Foundation International Centre of Excellence, King's College
Hospital, Denmark Hill, London, SE5 9RS, UK.
(6)Department of Clinical and Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of
Hertfordshire, Hatfield, AL10 9AB, UK. m.iravani@herts.ac.uk.
(7)Neurodegenerative Diseases Research Group, Institute of Cancer and
Pharmaceutical Sciences, Faculty of Life Sciences and Medicine, King's College
London, London, SE1 1UL, UK. sarah.salvage@kcl.ac.uk.
(#)Contributed equally

The pathological changes underlying gastrointestinal (GI) dysfunction in
Parkinson's disease (PD) are poorly understood and the symptoms remain
inadequately treated. In this study we compared the functional and neurochemical 
changes in the enteric nervous system in the colon of adult, L-DOPA-responsive,
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated common marmoset, with
naïve controls. Measurement of mucosal vectorial ion transport, spontaneous
longitudinal smooth muscle activity and immunohistochemical assessment of
intrinsic innervation were each performed in discrete colonic regions of naïve
and MPTP-treated marmosets. The basal short circuit current (Isc) was lower in
MPTP-treated colonic mucosa while mucosal resistance was unchanged. There was no 
difference in basal cholinergic tone, however, there was an increased excitatory 
cholinergic response in MPTP-treated tissues when NOS was blocked with
L-Nω-nitroarginine. The amplitude and frequency of spontaneous contractions in
longitudinal smooth muscle as well as carbachol-evoked post-junctional
contractile responses were unaltered, despite a decrease in choline
acetyltransferase and an increase in the vasoactive intestinal polypeptide neuron
numbers per ganglion in the proximal colon. There was a low-level inflammation in
the proximal but not the distal colon accompanied by a change in α-synuclein
immunoreactivity. This study suggests that MPTP treatment produces long-term
alterations in colonic mucosal function associated with amplified muscarinic
mucosal activity but decreased cholinergic innervation in myenteric plexi and
increased nitrergic enteric neurotransmission. This suggests that long-term
changes in either central or peripheral dopaminergic neurotransmission may lead
to adaptive changes in colonic function resulting in alterations in ion transport
across mucosal epithelia that may result in GI dysfunction in PD.

DOI: 10.1038/s41531-020-00150-x 
PMCID: PMC7820491
PMID: 33479243 

