

1932. Front Integr Neurosci. 2010 Dec 14;4:128. doi: 10.3389/fnint.2010.00128.
eCollection 2010.

Vocalization Induced CFos Expression in Marmoset Cortex.

Miller CT(1), Dimauro A, Pistorio A, Hendry S, Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
School of Medicine, Johns Hopkins University Baltimore, MD, USA.

All non-human primates communicate with conspecifics using vocalizations, a
system involving both the production and perception of species-specific vocal
signals. Much of the work on the neural basis of primate vocal communication in
cortex has focused on the sensory processing of vocalizations, while relatively
little data are available for vocal production. Earlier physiological studies in 
squirrel monkeys had shed doubts on the involvement of primate cortex in vocal
behaviors. The aim of the present study was to identify areas of common marmoset 
(Callithrix jacchus) cortex that are potentially involved in vocal communication.
In this study, we quantified cFos expression in three areas of marmoset cortex - 
frontal, temporal (auditory), and medial temporal - under various vocal
conditions. Specifically, we examined cFos expression in these cortical areas
during the sensory, motor (vocal production), and sensory-motor components of
vocal communication. Our results showed an increase in cFos expression in
ventrolateral prefrontal cortex as well as the medial and lateral belt areas of
auditory cortex in the vocal perception condition. In contrast, subjects in the
vocal production condition resulted in increased cFos expression only in dorsal
premotor cortex. During the sensory-motor condition (antiphonal calling),
subjects exhibited cFos expression in each of the above areas, as well as
increased expression in perirhinal cortex. Overall, these results suggest that
various cortical areas outside primary auditory cortex are involved in primate
vocal communication. These findings pave the way for further physiological
studies of the neural basis of primate vocal communication.

DOI: 10.3389/fnint.2010.00128 
PMCID: PMC3004388
PMID: 21179582 

