

1944. Stem Cells Dev. 2011 Sep;20(9):1587-99. doi: 10.1089/scd.2010.0351. Epub 2011 Jan
16.

Gene targeting and subsequent site-specific transgenesis at the β-actin (ACTB)
locus in common marmoset embryonic stem cells.

Shiozawa S(1), Kawai K, Okada Y, Tomioka I, Maeda T, Kanda A, Shinohara H,
Suemizu H, James Okano H, Sotomaru Y, Sasaki E, Okano H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, School of Medicine, Keio University, Tokyo, Japan.

Nonhuman primate embryonic stem (ES) cells have vast promise for preclinical
studies. Genetic modification in nonhuman primate ES cells is an essential
technique for maximizing the potential of these cells. The common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus), a nonhuman primate, is expected to be a useful transgenic
model for preclinical studies. However, genetic modification in common marmoset
ES (cmES) cells has not yet been adequately developed. To establish efficient and
stable genetic modifications in cmES cells, we inserted the enhanced green
fluorescent protein (EGFP) gene with heterotypic lox sites into the β-actin
(ACTB) locus of the cmES cells using gene targeting. The resulting knock-in ES
cells expressed EGFP ubiquitously under the control of the endogenous ACTB
promoter. Using inserted heterotypic lox sites, we demonstrated Cre
recombinase-mediated cassette exchange (RMCE) and successfully established a
monomeric red fluorescent protein (mRFP) knock-in cmES cell line. Further, a
herpes simplex virus-thymidine kinase (HSV-tk) knock-in cmES cell line was
established using RMCE. The growth of tumor cells originating from the cell line 
was significantly suppressed by the administration of ganciclovir. Therefore, the
HSV-tk/ganciclovir system is promising as a safeguard for stem cell therapy. The 
stable and ubiquitous expression of EGFP before RMCE enables cell fate to be
tracked when the cells are transplanted into an animal. Moreover, the creation of
a transgene acceptor locus for site-specific transgenesis will be a powerful
tool, similar to the ROSA26 locus in mice.

DOI: 10.1089/scd.2010.0351 
PMID: 21126169  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

