

1945. Fertil Steril. 2011 Mar 15;95(4):1428-34. doi: 10.1016/j.fertnstert.2010.11.003. 
Epub 2010 Dec 3.

Advanced follicle development in xenografted prepubertal ovarian tissue: the
common marmoset as a nonhuman primate model for ovarian tissue transplantation.

von Schönfeldt V(1), Chandolia R, Kiesel L, Nieschlag E, Schlatt S, Sonntag B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Campus Grosshadern,
Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität Munich, Munich, Germany.

OBJECTIVE: To establish a nonhuman primate model addressing follicular
development in cryopreserved prepubertal ovarian tissue after xenografting.
DESIGN: Experimental study.
SETTING: Academic research center.
ANIMAL(S): Ovarian tissue from female prepubertal common marmoset (Callytrix
jacchus jacchus) grafted into immunodeficient nude mice (Crl:NU-FoxnI(nu)).
INTERVENTION(S): Removal and subsequent cryopreservation of ovarian tissues with 
dimethyl sulfoxide, followed by grafting to subcutaneous sites of ovariectomized 
and intact nude mice.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE(S): Histologic evaluation for the mean number of total and
morphologically normal follicles in each class.
RESULT(S): The mean number of unadvanced follicles in frozen-thawed grafted
ovarian tissues was reduced compared with pregraft controls, but the prevalence
of normal follicular morphology was either slightly increased (primordial
follicles) or unchanged (primary follicles). Previous ovariectomy in graft
recipients increased total follicle numbers without effect on normal follicular
morphology and shifted the ratio of primordial to primary follicles toward an
increase in primary follicles, indicating activation of follicular maturation.
CONCLUSION(S): The marmoset is a suitable primate model for studies on the
subsequent use of cryopreserved ovarian tissue, demonstrating graft sustainment
and the development of follicles from prepubertal ovarian tissue in
immunodeficient hosts up to secondary and preantral stages.

Copyright © 2011 American Society for Reproductive Medicine. Published by
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fertnstert.2010.11.003 
PMID: 21122840  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

