

195. Am J Primatol. 2021 Feb;83(2):e23229. doi: 10.1002/ajp.23229. Epub 2021 Jan 19.

Temporal consistency and ecological validity of personality structure in common
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus): A unifying field and laboratory approach.

Šlipogor V(1)(2)(3), Massen JJM(1)(4), Schiel N(2), Souto A(3), Bugnyar T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Behavioral and Cognitive Biology, University of Vienna, Vienna, 
Austria.
(2)Department of Biology, Federal Rural University of Pernambuco, Recife, Brazil.
(3)Department of Zoology, Federal University of Pernambuco, Recife, Brazil.
(4)Animal Ecology Group, Institute of Environmental Biology, Department of
Biology, Utrecht University, Utrecht, The Netherlands.

Personality in animals has been extensively researched in recent decades.
Temporal consistency of behaviors is almost always part of the personality
definition and is usually explored in several different testing sessions or
observation periods. However, it is still unclear whether the obtained
personality constructs are stable across several years, which might be especially
important for long-living animals, such as primates. Further, little is known on 
whether the personality structures obtained in the laboratory reflect the
structures obtained under ecologically relevant conditions in the wild.
Therefore, we conducted a battery of personality tests on common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus) (N = 27), compared it with a test battery conducted 4 years 
beforehand on a subset of animals in captivity (N = 13) and ran an adapted
version under field conditions at Baracuhy Biological Field Station, Brazil
(N = 18). Under captive conditions, we found a remarkably similar personality
structure across 4 testing years. Further, we found high long-term temporal
consistency in the first two personality components, Boldness and Exploration;
however, monkeys that changed their social (i.e., breeding) status between the
two testing periods showed a significant increase in Boldness scores. Under field
conditions, we found a somewhat similar personality structure as compared to the 
laboratory, which to some extent corroborates ecological validity of our
personality test design. Nevertheless, whether the structure in the wild is
suppressed or expanded in comparison to captivity, and in which way the social
setting influences personality structure, should be further explored. Taken
together, our results contribute to the discussion about the reliability and
ecological validity of personality structures in nonhuman primates.

© 2021 The Authors. American Journal of Primatology published by Wiley
Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.23229 
PMCID: PMC7900989
PMID: 33464603  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

