

1958. J Neurosci. 2010 Oct 27;30(43):14552-9. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.2631-10.2010.

Differential contributions of the primate ventrolateral prefrontal and
orbitofrontal cortex to serial reversal learning.

Rygula R(1), Walker SC, Clarke HF, Robbins TW, Roberts AC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology and Behavioural and Clinical
Neuroscience Institute, University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 3EB, United
Kingdom. rr362@cam.ac.uk

The discrimination reversal paradigm is commonly used to measure a subject's
ability to adapt their behavior according to changes in stimulus-reward
contingencies. Human functional neuroimaging studies have demonstrated
activations in the lateral orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) and the inferior frontal
gyrus (IFG) in subjects performing this task. Excitotoxic lesions of analogous
regions in marmosets have revealed, however, that although the OFC is indeed
critical for reversal learning, ventrolateral prefrontal cortex (VLPFC)
(analogous to IFG) is not, contributing instead to higher order processing, such 
as that required in attentional set-shifting and strategy transfer. One major
difference between the marmoset and human studies has been the level of training 
subjects received in reversal learning, being far greater in the latter. Since
exposure to repeated contingency changes, as occurs in serial reversal learning, 
is likely to trigger the development of higher order, rule-based strategies, we
hypothesized a critical role of the marmoset VLPFC in performance of a serial
reversal learning paradigm. After extensive training in reversal learning,
marmosets received an excitotoxic lesion of the VLPFC, OFC, or a sham control
procedure. In agreement with our prediction, postsurgery, VLPFC lesioned animals 
were impaired in performing a series of discrimination reversals, but only when
novel visual stimuli were introduced. In contrast, OFC lesioned animals were
impaired regardless of whether the visual stimuli were the same or different from
those used during presurgery training. Together, these data demonstrate the
heterogeneous but interrelated involvement of primate OFC and VLPFC in the
performance of serial reversal learning.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.2631-10.2010 
PMCID: PMC3044865
PMID: 20980613  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

