

1962. Front Integr Neurosci. 2010 Sep 23;4. pii: 123. doi: 10.3389/fnint.2010.00123.
eCollection 2010.

Activation of frontal neocortical areas by vocal production in marmosets.

Simões CS(1), Vianney PV, de Moura MM, Freire MA, Mello LE, Sameshima K, Araújo
JF, Nicolelis MA, Mello CV, Ribeiro S.

Author information: 
(1)Edmond and Lily Safra - International Institute of Neuroscience of Natal
Natal, Rio Grande do Norte, Brazil.

Primates often rely on vocal communication to mediate social interactions.
Although much is known about the acoustic structure of primate vocalizations and 
the social context in which they are usually uttered, our knowledge about the
neocortical control of audio-vocal interactions in primates is still incipient,
being mostly derived from lesion studies in squirrel monkeys and macaques. To map
the neocortical areas related to vocal control in a New World primate species,
the common marmoset, we employed a method previously used with success in other
vertebrate species: Analysis of the expression of the immediate early gene Egr-1 
in freely behaving animals. The neocortical distribution of Egr-1 immunoreactive 
cells in three marmosets that were exposed to the playback of conspecific
vocalizations and vocalized spontaneously (H/V group) was compared to data from
three other marmosets that also heard the playback but did not vocalize (H/n
group). The anterior cingulate cortex, the dorsomedial prefrontal cortex and the 
ventrolateral prefrontal cortex presented a higher number of Egr-1 immunoreactive
cells in the H/V group than in H/n animals. Our results provide direct evidence
that the ventrolateral prefrontal cortex, the region that comprises Broca's area 
in humans and has been associated with auditory processing of species-specific
vocalizations and orofacial control in macaques, is engaged during vocal output
in marmosets. Altogether, our results support the notion that the network of
neocortical areas related to vocal communication in marmosets is quite similar to
that of Old world primates. The vocal production role played by these areas and
their importance for the evolution of speech in primates are discussed.

DOI: 10.3389/fnint.2010.00123 
PMCID: PMC2955454
PMID: 20953246 

