

1974. Psychopharmacology (Berl). 2011 Mar;214(1):33-53. doi: 10.1007/s00213-010-1989-2.
Epub 2010 Sep 1.

The developmental impact of prenatal stress, prenatal dexamethasone and postnatal
social stress on physiology, behaviour and neuroanatomy of primate offspring:
studies in rhesus macaque and common marmoset.

Pryce CR(1), Aubert Y, Maier C, Pearce PC, Fuchs E.

Author information: 
(1)Behavioural Neurobiology Laboratory, Swiss Federal Institute of Technology
Zürich, Schwerzenbach, Switzerland.

RATIONALE: Exposure of the immature mammalian brain to stress factors, including 
stress levels of glucocorticoids, either prenatally or postnatally, is regarded
as a major regulatory factor in short- and long-term brain function and, in
human, as a major aetiological factor in neuropsychiatric disorders. Experimental
human studies are not feasible and animal studies are required to demonstrate
causality and elucidate mechanisms. A number of studies have been conducted and
reviewed in rodents but there are relatively few studies in primates.
OBJECTIVES: Here we present an overview of our published studies and some
original data on the effects of: (1) prenatal stress on
hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) re/activity and hippocampus neuroanatomy in 
juvenile-adolescent rhesus macaques; (2) prenatal dexamethasone (DEX) on HPA
activity, behaviour and prefrontal cortex neuroanatomy in infant-adolescent
common marmosets; (3) postnatal daily parental separation stress on HPA
re/activity, behaviour, sleep and hippocampus and prefrontal cortex neuroanatomy 
in infant-adolescent common marmoset.
RESULTS: Prenatal stress increased basal cortisol levels and reduced neurogenesis
in macaque. Prenatal DEX was without effect on HPA activity and reduced social
play and skilled motor behaviour in marmoset. Postnatal social stress increased
basal cortisol levels, reduced social play, increased awakening and reduced
hippocampal glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid receptor expression in marmoset.
CONCLUSIONS: Perinatal stress-related environmental events exert short- and
long-term effects on HPA function, behaviour and brain status in rhesus macaque
and common marmoset. The mechanisms mediating the enduring effects remain to be
elucidated, with candidates including increased basal HPA function and epigenetic
programming.

DOI: 10.1007/s00213-010-1989-2 
PMCID: PMC3045510
PMID: 20809212  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

