

1985. J Neurophysiol. 2010 Oct;104(4):1884-98. doi: 10.1152/jn.01118.2009. Epub 2010
Aug 4.

Linear and nonlinear contributions to the visual sensitivity of neurons in
primate lateral geniculate nucleus.

Solomon SG(1), Tailby C, Cheong SK, Camp AJ.

Author information: 
(1)Discipline of Physiology, School of Medical Sciences and Bosch Institute,
University of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.
samuels@physiol.usyd.edu.au

Several parallel pathways convey retinal signals to the visual cortex of
primates. The signals of the parvocellular (P) and magnocellular (M) pathways are
well characterized; the properties of other rarely encountered cell types are
distinctive in many ways, but it is not clear that they can provide signals with 
the same fidelity. Here we study this by characterizing the temporal receptive
field of neurons in the lateral geniculate nucleus of anesthetized marmosets. For
each neuron, we measured the response to a flickering uniform field, and, from
this, estimated the linear and nonlinear receptive fields using spike-triggered
average (STA) and spike-triggered covariance (STC) analyses. As expected the
response of most P-cells was dominated by the STA, but the response of most
M-cells required additional nonlinear components, and these usually acted to
suppress cell responses. The STC analysis showed stronger suppressive axes in
suppressed-by-contrast cells, and both suppressive and excitatory axes in on-off 
cells. Together, the STA and the STC analyses form a model of the temporal
response to a large uniform field: under this model, the information that was
provided by suppressed-by-contrast cells or on-off cells approached that provided
by the P- and M-cells. However, whereas P- and M-cells provided more information 
about luminance, the nonlinear cells provided more information about the contrast
energy. This suggests that the nonlinear cells provide complimentary signals to
those of P- and M-cells, with reasonably high fidelity, and may play an important
role in normal visual processing.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.01118.2009 
PMID: 20685925  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

