

2003. J Neurotrauma. 2010 Jul;27(7):1321-32. doi: 10.1089/neu.2010.1294.

Upregulation of EphA4 on astrocytes potentially mediates astrocytic gliosis after
cortical lesion in the marmoset monkey.

Goldshmit Y(1), Bourne J.

Author information: 
(1)Australian Regenerative Medicine Institute, Monash University, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia. yona.goldshmit@med.monash.edu.au

Glial scar formation occurs in response to brain injury in mammalian models and
inhibits axonal growth. Identification of molecules that may mediate reactivity
of astrocytes has become a leading therapeutic goal in the field of neurotrauma. 
In adult rodent brain and spinal cord, many of the Eph receptors and their ephrin
ligands have been demonstrated to be upregulated on reactive astrocytes at the
injury site; however, little is known about the expression of these molecules in 
nonhuman primate injury models. This study examines the role of the tyrosine
kinase EphA4 receptor, which predominantly binds most ephrin ligands, after
injury in marmoset monkey brain. Following lesioning of the primary visual cortex
(V1) in the adult marmoset, EphA4 is strongly upregulated on reactive astrocytes 
around the lesion site, which secrete extracellular matrix molecules such as
chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans, which are known for their inhibitory effect on
axonal growth and regeneration. This astrocyte reactivity was also associated
with neuronal death in the area adjacent to the lesion site. EphA4 activation
induced by clustered ephrin A5-Fc-mediated astrocyte proliferation and glial
fibrillary acidic protein expression in vitro, as demonstrated by closure of
scratched wound and MTT assays, occurs via two potential signaling pathways, the 
mitogen-activated protein kinase and Rho pathways. These results in a nonhuman
primate model highlight the importance of developing pharmacotherapeutic
approaches to block these molecules following brain injury.

DOI: 10.1089/neu.2010.1294 
PMID: 20486805  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

