

201. Netw Neurosci. 2020 Dec 1;4(4):1181-1196. doi: 10.1162/netn_a_00159. eCollection 
2020.

Network topology of the marmoset connectome.

Liu ZQ(1), Zheng YQ(2), Misic B(1).

Author information: 
(1)McConnell Brain Imaging Centre, Montréal Neurological Institute, McGill
University, Montréal, Quebec, Canada.
(2)Biomedical Engineering, University of Oxford, Oxford, United Kingdom.

The brain is a complex network of interconnected and interacting neuronal
populations. Global efforts to understand the emergence of behavior and the
effect of perturbations depend on accurate reconstruction of white matter
pathways, both in humans and in model organisms. An emerging animal model for
next-generation applied neuroscience is the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).
A recent open respository of retrograde and anterograde tract tracing presents an
opportunity to systematically study the network architecture of the marmoset
brain (Marmoset Brain Architecture Project; http://www.marmosetbrain.org). Here
we comprehensively chart the topological organization of the mesoscale marmoset
cortico-cortical connectome. The network possesses multiple nonrandom attributes 
that promote a balance between segregation and integration, including
near-minimal path length, multiscale community structure, a connective core, a
unique motif composition, and multiple cavities. Altogether, these structural
attributes suggest a link between network architecture and function. Our findings
are consistent with previous reports across a range of species, scales, and
reconstruction technologies, suggesting a small set of organizational principles 
universal across phylogeny. Collectively, these results provide a foundation for 
future anatomical, functional, and behavioral studies in this model organism.

© 2020 Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

DOI: 10.1162/netn_a_00159 
PMCID: PMC7781610
PMID: 33409435 

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared
that no competing interests exist.

