

2020. Vet Parasitol. 2010 Jul 15;171(1-2):123-9. doi: 10.1016/j.vetpar.2010.02.044.
Epub 2010 Mar 4.

Helminths found in marmosets (Callithrix penicillata and Callithrixjacchus)
introduced to the region of occurrence of golden lion tamarins
(Leontopithecusrosalia) in Brazil.

dos Santos Sales I(1), Ruiz-Miranda CR, de Paula Santos C.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Biologia Celular e Tecidual, Centro de Biociências e
Biotecnologia, Universidade Estadual do Norte Fluminense, 28013-602 Campos dos
Goytacazes, RJ, Brazil.

The introduction of exotic species can increase the risk of extinction of native 
species through the introduction of new diseases, predation or resource
competition. The marmosets Callithrix penicillata and Callithrix jacchus and
hybrids of these two species have been introduced to privately owned forests in
the lowland Atlantic forest of the Rio de Janeiro State in Brazil, the region of 
occurrence of the endangered golden lion tamarin, Leontopithecus rosalia. Because
the ecology and biology of the marmosets and tamarins is similar, there is a
reasonable risk that the marmosets would transmit pathogens such as endo
parasites. The objective of this study was to identify the helminth fauna present
in the introduced marmosets through an analysis of fecal samples of wild caught
animals, and to evaluate the parasitological profile according to age, sex and
geographical location. Eggs belonging to the Acanthocephala and Nematoda were
found in the feces. One nematode egg type was identified as being Primasubulura
jacchi. The ocurrence of nematodes was higher in males, acanthocephala were found
in all age groups and sexes and P. jacchi was found with higher frequency in
adult females. The geographic distribution analysis revealed that some of the
forests had a higher predominance of parasites. Little is known about the
pathology of parasites in free living Neotropical mammals, and this knowledge
would be necessary to infer about the risk (form a parasitological standpoint)
that the marmoset presence represents for the survival of the endangered golden
lion tamarin.

Copyright (c) 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vetpar.2010.02.044 
PMID: 20378249  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

