

2022. Behav Neurosci. 2010 Apr;124(2):192-203. doi: 10.1037/a0018868.

Autonomic, behavioral, and neural analyses of mild conditioned negative affect in
marmosets.

Mikheenko Y(1), Man MS, Braesicke K, Johns ME, Hill G, Agustín-Pavón C, Roberts
AC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, University of Cambridge, United Kingdom.

Avoidance and alerting behaviors and accompanying physiological responses,
including changes in heart rate (HR), are core components of negative emotion.
Investigations into the neural mechanisms underlying the regulation and
integration of these responses require animal models that simultaneously measure 
both the physiological and behavioral components of emotion. A primate model is
of particular importance in view of the well developed prefrontal cortex of
primates, and this region's critical role in emotion regulation and the etiology 
of affective disorders. Therefore, we have developed a simple aversive
conditioning paradigm to assess, simultaneously, cardiovascular and behavioral
responses in the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). Validation of the paradigm was
achieved by (1) comparing conditioned responses to a predictive cue with
pseudoconditioned responses to a nonpredictive cue; (2) assessing the acquisition
of conditioning following lesions of the amygdala, a region essential for
associative learning in humans and rats; and (3) determining the contributions of
the sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous system to the conditioned autonomic
responses. Marmosets acquired conditioned HR and behavioral responses in the
conditioned, but not the pseudoconditioned or amygdala lesioned groups.
Conditioned HR accelerations were reduced by both parasympathetic and sympathetic
blockade. Thus, a model of associative learning of mild negative emotion in the
marmoset has been validated by psychological, neurological, and pharmacological
investigation. Future studies will determine the role of the prefrontal cortex in
the regulation of these negative emotional responses, to provide insights into
the neuropathology of affective disorders.

DOI: 10.1037/a0018868 
PMID: 20364879  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

