

2026. Primates. 2010 Oct;51(4):315-25. doi: 10.1007/s10329-010-0196-4. Epub 2010 Mar
26.

Maternal care and infant development in Callimico goeldii and Callithrix jacchus.

Ross AC(1), Porter LM, Power ML, Sodaro V.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anthropology, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada.
abigail.ross@utoronto.ca

Callimico goeldii gives birth to single offspring, whereas other callitrichids,
including Callithrix jacchus, twin. This study compares maternal effort and
infant development in C. goeldii and C. jacchus; it is the first study to look at
nursing frequency. Infants were observed from birth for 7 weeks in two captive
groups each of C. goeldii and C. jacchus. C. goeldii mothers physiologically
invested the same or less than C. jacchus mothers. C. goeldii mothers gained the 
same amount of weight during pregnancy in absolute terms as did the smaller C.
jacchus. This results in a smaller gain in proportion to maternal weight but an
equivalent proportional gain on a per fetus basis. C. goeldii mothers nursed
their infants less based on duration of nursing bouts compared with C. jacchus
mothers. C. goeldii mothers transported their infants exclusively through the
first 2 weeks of life, which is longer than C. jacchus mothers, who exclusively
transported infants only during the first week of life. As maternal infant
carriage declined, other group members transported offspring in both species. C. 
goeldii infants engaged in independent locomotive sequences later in development 
and tasted solid foods less frequently than C. jacchus infants when compared at
equivalent ages. A single, opportunistic milk sample obtained from a C. goeldii
mother when her infant was 48 days old indicates that C. goeldii milk contains
gross energy from crude protein within the range of variation observed in
Callithrix milk. Despite the similarities in milk quality and prenatal effort in 
individual fetuses, C. goeldii infants gain weight faster from 0 to 18 months
than do C. jacchus infants. A reduction in litter size allows C. goeldii mothers 
to spend more time carrying their infant and to delay weaning, thereby allowing
accelerated infant and juvenile growth rates compared with C. jacchus.

DOI: 10.1007/s10329-010-0196-4 
PMID: 20339900  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

