

2033. Anat Rec (Hoboken). 2010 Apr;293(4):572-82. doi: 10.1002/ar.21121.

A preliminary analysis of the relationship between jaw-muscle architecture and
jaw-muscle electromyography during chewing across primates.

Vinyard CJ(1), Taylor AB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy and Neurobiology, Northeastern Ohio Universities College
of Medicine, Rootstown, OH 44272, USA. cvinyard@neoucom.edu

The architectural arrangement of the fibers within a muscle has a significant
impact on how a muscle functions. Recent work on primate jaw-muscle architecture 
demonstrates significant associations with dietary variation and feeding
behaviors. In this study, the relationship between masseter and temporalis muscle
architecture and jaw-muscle activity patterns is explored using Belanger's
treeshrews and 11 primate species, including two genera of strepsirrhines (Lemur 
and Otolemur) and five genera of anthropoids (Aotus, Callithrix, Cebus, Macaca,
and Papio). Jaw-muscle weights, fiber lengths, and physiologic cross-sectional
areas (PCSA) were quantified for this preliminary analysis or collected from the 
literature and compared to published electromyographic recordings from these
muscles. Results indicate that masseter architecture is unrelated to the
superficial masseter working-side/balancing-side (W/B) ratio across primate
species. Alternatively, relative temporalis architecture is correlated with
temporalis W/B ratios across primates. Specifically, relative temporalis PCSA is 
inversely related to the W/B ratio for the anterior temporalis, indicating that
as animals recruit a larger relative percentage of their balancing-side
temporalis, they possess the ability to generate relatively larger amounts of
force from these muscles. These findings support three broader conclusions.
First, masseter muscle architecture may have experienced divergent evolution
across different primate clades related to novel functional roles in different
groups. Second, the temporalis may be functionally constrained (relative to the
masseter) across primates in its functional role of creating vertical occlusal
forces during chewing. Finally, the contrasting results for the masseter and
temporalis suggest that the fiber architecture of these muscles has evolved as
distinct functional units in primates.

(c) 2010 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ar.21121 
PMCID: PMC3098528
PMID: 20235313  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

