

2060. J Neurosci Res. 2010 May 15;88(7):1394-405. doi: 10.1002/jnr.22322.

Transplantation of galectin-1-expressing human neural stem cells into the injured
spinal cord of adult common marmosets.

Yamane J(1), Nakamura M, Iwanami A, Sakaguchi M, Katoh H, Yamada M, Momoshima S, 
Miyao S, Ishii K, Tamaoki N, Nomura T, Okano HJ, Kanemura Y, Toyama Y, Okano H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, Shinjuku, Tokyo,
Japan.

Delayed transplantation of neural stem/progenitor cells (NS/PCs) into the injured
spinal cord can promote functional recovery in adult rats and monkeys. To enhance
the functional recovery after NS/PC transplantation, we focused on galectin-1, a 
carbohydrate-binding protein with pleiotropic roles in cell growth,
differentiation, apoptosis, and neurite outgrowth. Here, to determine the
combined therapeutic effect of NS/PC transplantation and galectin-1 on spinal
cord injury (SCI), human NS/PCs were transfected by lentivirus with galectin-1
and green fluorescent protein (GFP), (Gal-NS/PCs) or GFP alone (GFP-NS/PCs),
expanded in vitro, and then transplanted into the spinal cord of adult common
marmosets, 9 days after contusive cervical SCI. The animals' motor function was
evaluated by their spontaneous motor activity, bar grip power, and performance on
a treadmill test. Histological analyses revealed that the grafted human NS/PCs
survived and differentiated into neurons, astrocytes, and oligodendrocytes. There
were significant differences in the myelinated area, corticospinal fibers, and
serotonergic fibers among the Gal-NS/PC, GFP-NS/PC, vehicle-control, and
sham-operated groups. The Gal-NS/PC-grafted animals showed a better performance
on all the behavioral tests compared with the other groups. These findings
suggest that Gal-NS/PCs have better therapeutic potential than NS/PCs for SCI in 
nonhuman primates and that human Gal-NS/PC transplantation might be a feasible
treatment for human SCI.

(c) 2010 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jnr.22322 
PMID: 20091712  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

