

2065. Horm Behav. 2010 Feb;57(2):255-62. doi: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2009.12.004. Epub 2009
Dec 16.

Manipulation of the oxytocin system alters social behavior and attraction in
pair-bonding primates, Callithrix penicillata.

Smith AS(1), Agmo A, Birnie AK, French JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology and Callitrichid Research Facility, University of
Nebraska at Omaha, Omaha, Nebraska, USA. asmith@neuro.fsu.edu

The establishment and maintenance of stable, long-term male-female relationships,
or pair-bonds, are marked by high levels of mutual attraction, selective
preference for the partner, and high rates of sociosexual behavior. Central
oxytocin (OT) affects social preference and partner-directed social behavior in
rodents, but the role of this neuropeptide has yet to be studied in heterosexual 
primate relationships. The present study evaluated whether the OT system plays a 
role in the dynamics of social behavior and partner preference during the first 3
weeks of cohabitation in male and female marmosets, Callithrix penicillata. OT
activity was stimulated by intranasal administration of OT, and inhibited by oral
administration of a non-peptide OT-receptor antagonist (L-368,899; Merck). Social
behavior throughout the pairing varied as a function of OT treatment. Compared to
controls, marmosets initiated huddling with their social partner more often after
OT treatments but reduced proximity and huddling after OT antagonist treatments. 
OT antagonist treatment also eliminated food sharing between partners. During the
24-h preference test, all marmosets interacted more with an opposite-sex stranger
than with the partner. By the third-week preference test, marmosets interacted
with the partner and stranger equally with the exception that intranasal-OT
treatments facilitated initial partner-seeking behavior over initial contact with
the stranger. Our findings demonstrate that pharmacological manipulations of OT
activity alter partner-directed social behavior during pair interactions,
suggesting that central OT may facilitate the process of pair-bond formation and 
social relationships in marmoset monkeys.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2009.12.004 
PMCID: PMC2824532
PMID: 20025881  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

