

2066. Cloning Stem Cells. 2009 Dec;11(4):575-83. doi: 10.1089/clo.2009.0005.

Preimplantation development of somatic cell cloned embryos in the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus).

Sotomaru Y(1), Hirakawa R, Shimada A, Shiozawa S, Sugawara A, Oiwa R, Nobukiyo A,
Okano H, Tamaoki N, Nomura T, Hiyama E, Sasaki E.

Author information: 
(1)Natural Science Center for Basic Research and Development, Hiroshima
University, Hiroshima, Hiroshima, Japan. sotomaru@hiroshima-u.ac.jp

The somatic cell nuclear transfer technique has been applied to various mammals
to produce cloned animals; however, a standardized method is not applicable to
all species. We aimed here to develop optimum procedures for somatic cell cloning
in nonhuman primates, using common marmosets. First, we confirmed that
parthenogenetic activation of in vitro matured oocytes was successfully induced
by electrical stimulation (three cycles of 150 V/mm, 50 microsec x 2, 20 min
intervals), and this condition was applied to the egg activation procedure in the
subsequent experiments. Next, nuclear transfer to recipient enucleated oocytes
was performed 1 h before, immediately after, or 1 h after egg activation
treatment. The highest developmental rate was observed when nuclear transfer was 
performed 1 h before activation, but none of the cloned embryos developed beyond 
the eight-cell stage. To investigate the causes of the low developmental
potential of cloned embryos, a study was performed to determine whether the
presence of metaphase II (MII) chromosome in recipient ooplasm has an effect on
developmental potential. As a result, only tetraploid cloned embryos produced by 
transferring a donor cell into a recipient bearing the MII chromosome developed
into blastocysts (66.7%). In contrast, neither parthenogenetic embryos nor cloned
embryos (whether diploid or tetraploid) produced using enucleated oocytes
developed past the eight-cell stage. These results suggest that MII chromosome,
or cytoplasm proximal to the MII chromosome, plays a major role in the
development of cloned embryos in common marmosets.

DOI: 10.1089/clo.2009.0005 
PMID: 20025525  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

