

2070. Methods Mol Biol. 2010;598:341-59. doi: 10.1007/978-1-60761-401-2_23.

Immunotoxicity testing in nonhuman primates.

Grote-Wessels S, Frings W, Smith CA, Weinbauer GF.

Biological relevance is generally the major justification for using nonhuman
primates (NHP) during preclinical safety assessment. This holds particularly true
for the evaluation of biopharmaceuticals with NHP often being the species of
choice. For safety assessment of small molecules, NHP are used in case of a
higher degree of metabolic similarity, to detect the highly specific immunotoxic 
side effects and to discriminate toxicity from efficacy of immunomodulatory
drugs. Unlike for rodent immunotoxicity studies, standardized tests and protocols
are generally less available for NHP. The immunotoxicity testing protocols
described in the present chapter have been adapted for application to NHP
samples. In principle, rodent protocols can be transferred to NHP. Fortunately,
most of the immunotoxicity parameters delineated in the ICH S8 guideline can be
applied to NHP specimens. Exceptions are the host resistance assay and the
delayed type hypersensitivity test. Owing to the close structural and
physiological similarity between NHP and human, human test kits or reagents are
often well suited for application to NHP samples. For data evaluation it should
be noted that no inbred strains of NHP are available, resulting in a large
inter-animal variability for most immunotoxicity assay results. The experimental 
protocols and reagents described in this chapter were developed specifically for 
the cynomolgus monkey (Macaca fascicularis), currently the most commonly used NHP
species in toxicology. In many instances, these protocols will also be applicable
to rhesus monkeys (M. mulatta) and potentially to other Old World macaques. For
the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a New World monkey also used in toxicology,
the choice of available immunotoxicity testing protocols is much reduced when
compared to macaques.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-60761-401-2_23 
PMID: 19967524  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

