

2086. Exp Neurol. 2010 Jan;221(1):79-85. doi: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2009.10.004. Epub
2009 Oct 13.

Continuous rotigotine administration reduces dyskinesia resulting from pulsatile 
treatment with rotigotine or L-DOPA in MPTP-treated common marmosets.

Stockwell KA(1), Scheller DK, Smith LA, Rose S, Iravani MM, Jackson MJ, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Research Centre, School of Health and Biomedical
Sciences, King's College, London, UK.

We previously showed that continuous infusion of rotigotine resulted in less
dyskinesia than repeated pulsatile rotigotine administration or repeated oral
administration of L-DOPA in MPTP-treated marmosets. Now we investigate whether
continuous rotigotine delivery modifies established dyskinesia induced by prior
exposure to repeated pulsatile administration of L-DOPA or rotigotine in
MPTP-treated common marmosets. Repeated oral administration of L-DOPA or
subcutaneous bolus administration of rotigotine over 28 days improved motor
deficits but resulted in the onset of dyskinesia of moderate intensity. When
these animals were switched to a 28-day continuous infusion of rotigotine, the
reversal of motor disability was maintained. In those animals initially treated
with L-DOPA, there was a small reduction in dyskinesia intensity but a
significant reduction in the duration of dyskinesia. However, in animals
initially treated with repeated bolus administration of rotigotine, dyskinesia
intensity was significantly reduced. Initial treatment with a continuous infusion
of rotigotine for 28 days reversed motor disability and resulted in a low
incidence of dyskinesia. On switching to repeated oral administration of L-DOPA, 
the improvement in motor disability was maintained but the propensity of L-DOPA
to provoke dyskinesia was not affected. In addition, while the continuous
delivery of rotigotine prevented the expression of dyskinesia, the previously
demonstrated ability of dopamine agonists to prime for dyskinesia could not be
avoided. These data suggest that dyskinesia induced by pulsatile drug treatment
may be improved by switching to continuous rotigotine delivery. In addition,
while continuous delivery of rotigotine may prime for dyskinesia, it does not
lead to its expression.

DOI: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2009.10.004 
PMID: 19833125  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

