

2093. Anat Rec (Hoboken). 2010 Jan;293(1):91-107. doi: 10.1002/ar.21017.

The maxillary sinus in three genera of new world monkeys: factors that constrain 
secondary pneumatization.

Smith TD(1), Rossie JB, Cooper GM, Carmody KA, Schmieg RM, Bonar CJ, Mooney MP,
Siegel MI.

Author information: 
(1)School of Physical Therapy, Slippery Rock University, Slippery Rock,
Pennsylvania 16057, USA. timothy.smith@sru.edu

The air filled cavities of paranasal sinuses are thought by some to appear
opportunistically in spatial "gaps" within the craniofacial complex. Anthropoid
primates provide excellent natural experiments for testing this model, since not 
all species possess a full complement of paranasal sinuses. In this study, two
genera of monkeys (Saguinus and Cebuella) which form maxillary sinuses (MS) as
adults were compared to squirrel monkeys (Saimiri spp.), in which a MS does not
form. Using microCT and histomorphometric methods, the spatial position of
paranasal spaces was assessed and size of the adjacent dental sacs was measured. 
In Saguinus, secondary pneumatization is underway perinatally, and the sinus
extends alongside deciduous premolars (dp). The MS overlaps all permanent molars 
in the adult. In Saimiri, the homologous space (maxillary recess) extends no
farther posterior than the first deciduous premolar at birth and extends no
farther than the last premolar in the adult. Differences in dental size and
position may account for this finding. For example, Saimiri has significantly
larger relative dp volumes, and enlarged orbits, which encroach on the internasal
space to a greater degree when compared to Saguinus. These factors limit space
for posterior expansion of the maxillary recess. These findings support the
hypothesis that secondary pneumatization is a novel, opportunistic growth
mechanism that removes "unneeded" bone. Moreover, paranasal spaces occur in
association with semiautonomous skeletal elements that border more than one
functional matrix, and the spatial dynamics of these units can act as a
constraint on pneumatic expansion of paranasal spaces.

(c) 2009 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ar.21017 
PMID: 19798701  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

