

2094. PLoS Pathog. 2009 Oct;5(10):e1000606. doi: 10.1371/journal.ppat.1000606. Epub
2009 Oct 2.

Non-human primate model of Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus infection.

Chang H(1), Wachtman LM, Pearson CB, Lee JS, Lee HR, Lee SH, Vieira J, Mansfield 
KG, Jung JU.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Microbiology and Immunology, University of Southern
California, Keck School of Medicine, Los Angeles, California, United States of
America.

Since Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV or human herpesvirus 8) was
first identified in Kaposi's sarcoma (KS) lesions of HIV-infected individuals
with AIDS, the basic biological understanding of KSHV has progressed remarkably. 
However, the absence of a proper animal model for KSHV continues to impede direct
in vivo studies of viral replication, persistence, and pathogenesis. In response 
to this need for an animal model of KSHV infection, we have explored whether
common marmosets can be experimentally infected with human KSHV. Here, we report 
the successful zoonotic transmission of KSHV into common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus, Cj), a New World primate. Marmosets infected with recombinant KSHV
rapidly seroconverted and maintained a vigorous anti-KSHV antibody response. KSHV
DNA and latent nuclear antigen (LANA) were readily detected in the peripheral
blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) and various tissues of infected marmosets.
Remarkably, one orally infected marmoset developed a KS-like skin lesion with the
characteristic infiltration of leukocytes by spindle cells positive for KSHV DNA 
and proteins. These results demonstrate that human KSHV infects common marmosets,
establishes an efficient persistent infection, and occasionally leads to a
KS-like skin lesion. This is the first animal model to significantly elaborate
the important aspects of KSHV infection in humans and will aid in the future
design of vaccines against KSHV and anti-viral therapies targeting KSHV
coinfected tumor cells.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.ppat.1000606 
PMCID: PMC2745662
PMID: 19798430  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

