

2105. Reprod Biol Endocrinol. 2009 Sep 9;7:96. doi: 10.1186/1477-7827-7-96.

Rapidly evolving marmoset MSMB genes are differently expressed in the male
genital tract.

Lundwall A(1), Larne O, Nayudu PL, Ceder Y, Valtonen-André C.

Author information: 
(1)Lund University, Department of Laboratory Medicine, Division of Clinical
Chemistry, University Hospital MAS, Malmö, Sweden. ake.lundwall@med.lu.se

BACKGROUND: Beta-microseminoprotein, an abundant component in prostatic fluid, is
encoded by the potential tumor suppressor gene MSMB. Some New World monkeys carry
several copies of this gene, in contrast to most mammals, including humans, which
have one only. Here we have investigated the background for the species
difference by analyzing the chromosomal organization and expression of MSMB in
the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).
METHODS: Genes were identified in the Callithrix jacchus genome database using
bioinformatics and transcripts were analyzed by RT-PCR and quantified by real
time PCR in the presence of SYBR green.
RESULTS: The common marmoset has five MSMB: one processed pseudogene and four
functional genes. The latter encompass homologous genomic regions of 32-35 kb,
containing the genes of 12-14 kb and conserved upstream and downstream regions of
14-19 kb and 3-4 kb. One gene, MSMB1, occupies the same position on the
chromosome as the single human gene. On the same chromosome, but several Mb away,
is another MSMB locus situated with MSMB2, MSMB3 and MSMB4 arranged in tandem.
Measurements of transcripts demonstrated that all functional genes are expressed 
in the male genital tract, generating very high transcript levels in the
prostate. The transcript levels in seminal vesicles and testis are two and four
orders of magnitude lower. A single gene, MSMB3, accounts for more than 90% of
MSMB transcripts in both the prostate and the seminal vesicles, whereas in the
testis around half of the transcripts originate from MSMB2. These genes display
rapid evolution with a skewed distribution of mutated nucleotides; in MSMB2 they 
affect nucleotides encoding the N-terminal Greek key domain, whereas in MSMB3 it 
is the C-terminal MSMB-unique domain that is affected.
CONCLUSION: Callitrichide monkeys have four functional MSMB that are all
expressed in the male genital tract, but the product from one gene, MSMB3, will
predominate in seminal plasma. This gene and MSMB2, the predominating testicular 
gene, have accumulated mutations that affect different parts of the translation
products, suggesting an ongoing molecular specialization that presumably yields
functional differences in accessory sex glands and testis.

DOI: 10.1186/1477-7827-7-96 
PMCID: PMC2746217
PMID: 19737427  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

