

2109. J Virol. 2009 Nov;83(22):11635-44. doi: 10.1128/JVI.01483-09. Epub 2009 Sep 2.

General and target-specific RNA binding properties of Epstein-Barr virus SM
posttranscriptional regulatory protein.

Han Z(1), Verma D, Hilscher C, Dittmer DP, Swaminathan S.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Infectious Diseases, Department of Medicine, and University of
Florida Shands Cancer Center, University of Florida, Gainesville, Florida, USA.

Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) SM protein is an essential nuclear shuttling protein
expressed by EBV early during the lytic phase of replication. SM acts to increase
EBV lytic gene expression by binding EBV mRNAs and enhancing accumulation of the 
majority of EBV lytic cycle mRNAs. SM increases target mRNA stability and nuclear
export, in addition to modulating RNA splicing. SM and its homologs in other
herpesvirus have been hypothesized to function in part by binding viral RNAs and 
recruiting cellular export factors. Although activation of gene expression by SM 
is gene specific, it is unknown whether SM binds to mRNA in a specific manner or 
whether its RNA binding is target independent. SM-mRNA complexes were isolated
from EBV-infected B-lymphocyte cell lines induced to permit lytic EBV
replication, and a quantitative measurement of mRNAs corresponding to all known
EBV open reading frames was performed by real-time quantitative reverse
transcription-PCR. The results showed that although SM has broad RNA binding
properties, there is a clear hierarchy of affinities among EBV mRNAs with respect
to SM complex formation. In vitro binding assays with two of the most highly
SM-associated transcripts suggested that SM binds preferentially to specific
sequences or structures present in noncoding regions of some EBV mRNAs.
Furthermore, the presence of these sequences conferred responsiveness to SM.
These data are consistent with a mechanism of action similar to that of hnRNPs,
which exert sequence-specific effects on gene expression despite having multiple 
degenerate consensus binding sites common to a large number of RNAs.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.01483-09 
PMCID: PMC2772688
PMID: 19726500  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

