

2117. Horm Behav. 2009 Oct;56(4):436-43. doi: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2009.07.012. Epub 2009
Aug 5.

Prolactin's mediative role in male parenting in parentally experienced marmosets 
(Callithrix jacchus).

Ziegler TE(1), Prudom SL, Zahed SR, Parlow AF, Wegner F.

Author information: 
(1)Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin, Madison, 
WI 53715, USA. ziegler@primate.wisc.edu

Prolactin has been implicated in promoting paternal care behaviors but little
evidence of causality has been found to date except for birds and fish. This
study was designed to examine the possible causal relationships between prolactin
and male parenting behaviors, reproductive hormones, and physical changes in
cooperatively breeding common marmosets, Callithrix jacchus. Fifteen parentally
experienced fathers were studied over three consecutive infant care periods
during two weeks prior and three weeks following their mates' parturition under
three-treatment conditions: normal control pregnancy, decreased prolactin and
elevated prolactin. The treatments significantly altered the serum prolactin
levels in the fathers. Using three methods of determining a father's level of
parental care: infant carrying, family effort and responsiveness to infant
stimulus tests, we found that only the male response to infant stimuli was
altered by the hormone treatments. Lowering prolactin significantly reduced male 
responsiveness to infant stimuli but elevating prolactin showed the same effect. 
Hormonal sampling indicated that testosterone levels showed an inverse
relationship to prolactin levels during a normal peripartum period and prolactin 
treatment reduced this relationship. Prepartum estradiol levels were
significantly elevated during the lowered prolactin treatment and estradiol was
significantly lowered postpartum with the elevated prolactin treatment. Father's 
weight decreased significantly by the third week of infant care during the normal
treatment. Males in the elevated prolactin treatment lost little or no weight
from prepartum while in the lowered prolactin treatment showed the most weight
loss. The present findings did not distinguish a direct causal relationship of
prolactin on behavior in experienced fathers but did find an interaction with
other hormones and weight gain.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2009.07.012 
PMCID: PMC2761515
PMID: 19664636  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

