

212. J Neurophysiol. 2021 Jan 1;125(1):296-304. doi: 10.1152/jn.00581.2020. Epub 2020 
Dec 16.

Visual responses in the dorsolateral frontal cortex of marmoset monkeys.

Feizpour A(1)(2), Majka P(1)(3), Chaplin TA(1)(2), Rowley D(1)(2), Yu HH(1)(2),
Zavitz E(1)(2), Price NSC(1)(2), Rosa MGP(1)(2), Hagan MA(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Neuroscience Program, Biomedicine Discovery
Institute, Monash University, Clayton, Victoria, Australia.
(2)Australian Research Council, Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain
Function, Monash University, Clayton, Victoria, Australia.
(3)Laboratory of Neuroinformatics, Nencki Institute of Experimental Biology of
the Polish Academy of Sciences, Warsaw, Poland.

The marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus) has gained attention in neurophysiology 
research as a new primate model for visual processing and behavior. In
particular, marmosets have a lissencephalic cortex, making multielectrode,
optogenetic, and calcium-imaging techniques more accessible than other primate
models. However, the degree of homology of brain circuits for visual behavior
with those identified in macaques and humans is still being ascertained. For
example, whereas the location of the frontal eye fields (FEF) within the
dorsolateral frontal cortex has been proposed, it remains unclear whether neurons
in the corresponding areas show visual responses-an important characteristic of
FEF neurons in other species. Here, we provide the first description of receptive
field properties and neural response latencies in the marmoset dorsolateral
frontal cortex, based on recordings using Utah arrays in anesthetized animals. We
find brisk visual responses in specific regions of the dorsolateral prefrontal
cortex, particularly in areas 8aV, 8C, and 6DR. As in macaque FEF, the receptive 
fields were typically large (10°-30° in diameter) and the median responses
latency was brisk (60 ms). These results constrain the possible interpretations
about the location of the marmoset FEF and suggest that the marmoset model's
significant advantages for the use of physiological techniques may be leveraged
in the study of visuomotor cognition.NEW & NOTEWORTHY Behavior and cognition in
humans and other primates rely on networks of brain areas guided by the frontal
cortex. The marmoset offers exciting new opportunities to study links between
brain physiology and behavior, but the functions of frontal cortex areas are
still being identified in this species. Here, we provide the first evidence of
visual receptive fields in the marmoset dorsolateral frontal cortex, an important
step toward future studies of visual cognitive behavior.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00581.2020 
PMID: 33326337  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

