

2145. Mol Biol Evol. 2009 Aug;26(8):1889-900. doi: 10.1093/molbev/msp101. Epub 2009 May
8.

New insights into centromere organization and evolution from the white-cheeked
gibbon and marmoset.

Cellamare A(1), Catacchio CR, Alkan C, Giannuzzi G, Antonacci F, Cardone MF,
Della Valle G, Malig M, Rocchi M, Eichler EE, Ventura M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics and Microbiology, University of Bari, Bari, Italy.

The evolutionary history of alpha-satellite DNA, the major component of primate
centromeres, is hardly defined because of the difficulty in its sequence assembly
and its rapid evolution when compared with most genomic sequences. By using
several approaches, we have cloned, sequenced, and characterized alpha-satellite 
sequences from two species representing critical nodes in the primate phylogeny: 
the white-cheeked gibbon, a lesser ape, and marmoset, a New World monkey.
Sequence analyses demonstrate that white-cheeked gibbon and marmoset
alpha-satellite sequences are formed by units of approximately 171 and
approximately 342 bp, respectively, and they both lack the high-order structure
found in humans and great apes. Fluorescent in situ hybridization
characterization shows a broad dispersal of alpha-satellite in the white-cheeked 
gibbon genome including centromeric, telomeric, and chromosomal interstitial
localizations. On the other hand, centromeres in marmoset appear organized in
highly divergent dimers roughly of 342 bp that show a similarity between monomers
much lower than previously reported dimers, thus representing an ancient dimeric 
structure. All these data shed light on the evolution of the centromeric
sequences in Primates. Our results suggest radical differences in the structure, 
organization, and evolution of alpha-satellite DNA among different primate
species, supporting the notion that 1) all the centromeric sequence in Primates
evolved by genomic amplification, unequal crossover, and sequence homogenization 
using a 171 bp monomer as the basic seeding unit and 2) centromeric function is
linked to relatively short repeated elements, more than higher-order structure.
Moreover, our data indicate that complex higher-order repeat structures are a
peculiarity of the hominid lineage, showing the more complex organization in
humans.

DOI: 10.1093/molbev/msp101 
PMCID: PMC2734153
PMID: 19429672  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

