

2159. Am J Hum Biol. 2009 Nov-Dec;21(6):739-44. doi: 10.1002/ajhb.20920.

Variations in male parenting behavior and physiology in the common marmoset.

Ziegler TE(1), Prudom SL, Zahed SR.

Author information: 
(1)Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin, Madison, 
Wisconsin 53715, USA. ziegler@primate.wisc.edu

Infant survival and wellbeing is dependent upon good parenting skills. In some
species of primates, fathers are necessary to ensure both positive developmental 
and social outcomes for their offspring. Common marmosets and the related
cotton-top tamarin monkeys provide extensive paternal care of multiple offspring 
and are essential for infant survival. However, we have found significant
variation in a father's motivation to respond to infant stimuli. Additionally,
marmoset males who are experienced fathers are significantly more motivated to
respond to infants and infant stimuli than adult males who have yet to be
fathers. Expectant fathers appear to be preparing for their energetic role in
infant care by responding with increases in multiple reproductive hormones and
showing weight gain during their mate's pregnancy. Male marmosets have been shown
to be hormonally responsive to scent signals. Males show increased testosterone
shortly after smelling periovulatory scents and lower levels of testosterone
following presentation of their own infant's scent. These two inverse
testosterone responses combined indicate that paternal males have a flexible
system of responding to socially relevant odor cues. Thus males can be ready to
mate when their mate is fertile while continuing to be responsive to their
infants when these two events occur simultaneously. A male's hormonal and
physical responsiveness to parenting may be due to pair bonding between the male 
and his mate. Examining the variability between males in their behavioral,
physical, and hormonal responses to their mate's pregnancy, and infant stimuli
provides the means for determining the mechanisms of good parenting in fathers.

DOI: 10.1002/ajhb.20920 
PMCID: PMC5030771
PMID: 19367571  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

