

216. Int J Neuropsychopharmacol. 2021 May 18;24(5):409-418. doi: 10.1093/ijnp/pyaa090.

Translational Assessments of Reward Responsiveness in the Marmoset.

Wooldridge LM(1), Bergman J(1)(2), Pizzagalli DA(1)(2), Kangas BD(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)McLean Hospital, Belmont, Massachusetts, USA.
(2)Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.

BACKGROUND: Anhedonia, the loss of pleasure in previously rewarding activities,
is a prominent feature of major depressive disorder and often resistant to
first-line antidepressant treatment. A paucity of translatable cross-species
tasks to assess subdomains of anhedonia, including reward learning, presents a
major obstacle to the development of effective therapeutics. One assay of reward 
learning characterized by orderly behavioral and pharmacological findings in both
humans and rats is the probabilistic reward task. In this computerized task,
subjects make discriminations across numerous trials in which correct responses
to one alternative are rewarded more often (rich) than correct responses to the
other (lean). Healthy control subjects reliably develop a response bias to the
rich alternative. However, participants with major depressive disorder as well as
rats exposed to chronic stress typically exhibit a blunted response bias.
METHODS: The present studies validated a touchscreen-based probabilistic reward
task for the marmoset, a small nonhuman primate with considerable translational
value. First, probabilistic reinforcement contingencies were parametrically
examined. Next, the effects of ketamine (1.0-10.0 mg/kg), a US Food and Drug
Administration-approved rapid-acting antidepressant, and phencyclidine (0.01-0.1 
mg/kg), a pharmacologically similar N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist with
no known antidepressant efficacy, were evaluated.
RESULTS: Increases in the asymmetry of rich:lean probabilistic contingencies
produced orderly increases in response bias. Consistent with their respective
clinical profiles, ketamine but not phencyclidine produced dose-related increases
in response bias at doses that did not reduce task discriminability.
CONCLUSIONS: Collectively, these findings confirm task and pharmacological
sensitivity in the marmoset, which may be useful in developing medications to
counter anhedonia across neuropsychiatric disorders.

© The Author(s) 2020. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of CINP.

DOI: 10.1093/ijnp/pyaa090 
PMCID: PMC8130205
PMID: 33280005  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

