

2161. Psychoneuroendocrinology. 2009 Sep;34(8):1222-34. doi:
10.1016/j.psyneuen.2009.03.012. Epub 2009 Apr 11.

Effects of elevated circulating cortisol concentrations on maternal behavior in
common marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus).

Saltzman W(1), Abbott DH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of California, Riverside, CA 92521, USA.
Saltzman@ucr.edu

Both acute and chronic stress can impair maternal behavior and increase rates of 
infant abuse in several species. The mechanisms inducing these effects are
unknown, but experimental manipulation of circulating corticosterone levels
alters maternal behavior in rats, and circulating or excreted cortisol
concentrations have been found to correlate either positively or negatively with 
maternal behavior in humans and nonhuman primates. In this study, therefore, we
experimentally tested the hypothesis that both acute and chronic treatment with
exogenous glucocorticoids would alter maternal behavior in a primate, the common 
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). Multiparous females, approximately 3-5 weeks
postpartum, received daily injections of either cortisol (hydrocortisone sodium
succinate and hydrocortisone acetate; N=7) or vehicle (N=7) for 8 days, and
maternal behavior was characterized under baseline conditions as well as during
exposure to a noise stressor. Cortisol treatment successfully elevated both
morning and afternoon plasma cortisol concentrations and suppressed circulating
levels of adrenocorticotropic hormone. In home-cage observations,
cortisol-treated females carried their infants significantly less than control
mothers, and in noise-stressor tests, several hours after the first cortisol or
vehicle treatment, cortisol-treated mothers inspected their infants significantly
more often than controls. Aggression towards infants was infrequent and mild, and
did not differ between treatment groups. These findings provide the first
experimental evidence that cortisol elevations can alter maternal behavior in
primates. As these effects were limited in scope, however, they suggest that
other stress-responsive hormones or neuropeptides may additionally play a role in
mediating the effects of stress on maternal behavior.

DOI: 10.1016/j.psyneuen.2009.03.012 
PMCID: PMC2716431
PMID: 19362777  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

