

2175. J Comp Neurol. 2009 May 1;514(1):11-29. doi: 10.1002/cne.21976.

Architectural subdivisions of medial and orbital frontal cortices in the marmoset
monkey (Callithrix jacchus).

Burman KJ(1), Rosa MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Victoria, Australia.
kathleen.burman@med.monash.edu.au

Although the common marmoset has become a model for the study of several
neurological conditions that affect the frontal lobe, knowledge of the boundaries
of the areas located in the orbital and medial frontal regions has remained
incomplete. Here we examined histological sections stained for myelin, Nissl
substance, and cytochrome oxidase, allowing identification of likely homologues
of most of the architectural fields defined in Old World monkeys. Ventrally, we
identified three granular fields at or near the frontal pole (area 10, and the
medial and lateral subregions of area 11), and two granular fields along the
lateral margin of the orbitofrontal cortex (medial and orbital subdivisions of
area 12). More caudal and medially, dysgranular and agranular cortices included
four subdivisions of area 13 as well as rostral and caudal subdivisions of area
14 (at the ventromedial convexity). The ventral frontotemporal transition
encompassed at least two subdivisions of agranular insular cortex, as well as the
likely homologues of the gustatory cortices. Most of the medial surface was
encompassed by area 10 (which projected a caudomedial finger-like extension
toward the subgenual cortex), together with a relatively large dysgranular area
32 and an agranular area 25 (in subgenual cortex). Finally, the caudal limit of
the medial frontal cortex included two fields of agranular cingulate cortex
(areas 24a and 24b). These findings enhance our understanding of the
architectural organization of the marmoset frontal cortex and highlight a highly 
conserved basic organization across simian primates, allowing the informed
interpretation of experimental neurological studies.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.21976 
PMID: 19260047  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

