

2189. Am J Phys Anthropol. 2009 Jul;139(3):353-67. doi: 10.1002/ajpa.20991.

The functional correlates of jaw-muscle fiber architecture in tree-gouging and
nongouging callitrichid monkeys.

Taylor AB(1), Eng CM, Anapol FC, Vinyard CJ.

Author information: 
(1)Doctor of Physical Therapy Division, Department of Community and Family
Medicine, Duke University School of Medicine, Box 104002, Durham, NC 27708, USA. 
andrea.taylor@duke.edu

Common (Callithrix jacchus) and pygmy (Cebuella pygmaea) marmosets and cotton-top
tamarins (Saguinus oedipus) share broadly similar diets of fruits, insects, and
tree exudates. Marmosets, however, differ from tamarins in actively gouging trees
with their anterior dentition to elicit tree exudates flow. Tree gouging in
common marmosets involves the generation of relatively wide jaw gapes, but not
necessarily relatively large bite forces. We compared fiber architecture of the
masseter and temporalis muscles in C. jacchus (N = 18), C. pygmaea (N = 5), and
S. oedipus (N = 13). We tested the hypothesis that tree-gouging marmosets would
exhibit relatively longer fibers and other architectural variables that
facilitate muscle stretch. As an architectural trade-off between maximizing
muscle excursion/contraction velocity and muscle force, we also tested the
hypothesis that marmosets would exhibit relatively less pinnate fibers, smaller
physiologic cross-sectional areas (PCSA), and lower priority indices (I) for
force. As predicted, marmosets display relatively longer-fibered muscles, a
higher ratio of fiber length to muscle mass, and a relatively greater potential
excursion of the distal tendon attachments, all of which favor muscle stretch.
Marmosets further display relatively smaller PCSAs and other features that
reflect a reduced capacity for force generation. The longer fibers and attendant 
higher contraction velocities likely facilitate the production of relatively wide
jaw gapes and the capacity to generate more power from their jaw muscles during
gouging. The observed functional trade-off between muscle excursion/contraction
velocity and muscle force suggests that primate jaw-muscle architecture reflects 
evolutionary changes related to jaw movements as one of a number of functional
demands imposed on the masticatory apparatus.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.20991 
PMID: 19140215  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

