

2194. Wiad Parazytol. 2009;55(4):459-62.

[Occurrence of Giardia species and genotypes in humans and animals in
Wielkopolska region, Poland].

[Article in Polish]

Solarczyk P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Katedrze i Zakładzie Biologii i Parazytologii. Lekarskiej Uniwersytetu
Medycznego im. Karola Marcinkowskiego w Poznaniu.

Giardia is the most common intestinal protozoan parasite found in humans and
animals worldwide. Although it has been known for three hundred years, the
nomenclature, taxonomy, host specificity, and pathogenicity of Giardia still
arouse numerous controversies and ambiguities. Giardia is classified into six
species, that are characterised by various ranges of hosts. The most dubious
species is G. intestinalis, which includes a dozen or so genotypes, and only two 
of them (genotype A and B) have wide ranges of hosts, including humans. Moreover,
in some genotype assemblages of G. intestinalis certain subgenotypes were
distinguished and it was proven that in the same host species various
subgenotypes of this parasite may occur. Bearing in mind the significant genetic 
heterogeneity of G. intestinalis and the fact that various genotypes and
subgenotypes of this parasite are characterised by the broad or narrow host
specificity, the data concerning the frequency of giardiosis occurrence are
insufficient. It is necessary to use molecular biology techniques in order to
define the genotype and/or the subgenotype of G. intestinalis that are found in
humans and in certain animal species. Furthermore, since more and more pieces of 
evidence connected with a possibility of the sexual recombination of Giardia are 
gathered, it is unknown if genotypes and subgenotypes of this parasite are stable
in time. The aim of this thesis was to define the frequency of Giardia occurrence
in humans and animals in Wielkopolska region, to identify species and genotypes
of Giardia that occur in humans and animals, as well as to obtain an axenic
culture of the chosen isolates of Giardia from animals and to compare the
sequence of the beta-giardin gene fragment obtained from the DNA isolated from
cysts and trophozoites in order to check if the axenisation of G. intestinalis
leads to the selection of genotypes or if Giardia genotypes are stable in time.
Altogether, 2183 faecal samples were examined for the presence of Giardia cysts; 
447 faecal samples were taken from 232 persons coming from 5 cities situated in
Wielkopolska, and 1736 faecal samples were obtained from 123 animal species,
including: 266 faecal samples from 113 species of animals kept in the Zoological 
Garden in Poznań, 1286 samples from 4 species of breeding animals, 118 samples
from dogs, and 66 samples from 5 species of wild animals. Faecal samples were
taken from animals coming from 25 places in Wielkopolska. Moreover, seven
isolates of G. intestinalis were used in the studies, which were obtained from
various species of hosts and kept in an axenic in vitro culture. Microscopic,
molecular and bio-informative methods were used in the studies. From each faecal 
sample fresh smears were made in a 0.6% solution of physiological salt and in
Lugol's solution, as well as a permanent smear stained with trichrome was made.
Moreover, the following molecular techniques were implemented in the studies: DNA
extraction and purification, the PCR technique (two molecular markers),
electrophoresis and visualisation of PCR products, and sequencing. A fragment of 
the beta-giardin gene was used as a molecular marker in order to define the
genotype and subgenotype of Giardia. Only in the case of genotyping of two
Giardia isolates obtained from Peromyscus eremicus another molecular marker (SSU 
rRNA)was additionally used. Some widely available computer programmes (Chromas,
CAP 3, BioEdit, BLASTn, MEGA version 4.0) were utilised in the analysis of the
sequence of the beta-giardin gene fragment and in the phylogenetic analysis. The 
culture of Giardia trophozoites was established to compare the sequence of the
partial beta-giardin gene from cysts and trophozoites. Concentration and
purification of Giardia cysts in the saccharose gradient, and the excystation
technique were applied in the studies to obtaining an axenic in vitro culture. In
this study, Giardia cysts were found in 12 faecal samples obtained from 3 persons
and 5 animal species. Giardia cysts were found only in faecal samples from humans
living in Poznań and the samples obtained from animals coming from Poznań and
around Puszczykowo. The highest frequency of infection was stated in domestic
animals (2.5%) and in animals kept in the Zoological Garden (2.0%), whereas a
slightly lower frequency was noticed in wild animals (1.5%) and in humans (1.3%).
No Giardia cysts were found in the faecal samples collected from breeding
animals. Two new species of Giardia hosts were identified, namely Rhinella marina
and Peromyscus eremicus; however, due to a minimal amount of faecal samples
supplied for the study it was impossible to define the species and genotype of
this parasite. PCR products (the partial of beta-giardin gene) were obtained in
seven faecal samples out of the ten studied, including three samples from people 
and four faecal samples derived from three animal species (i.e. dog, tamandua,
red deer). Moreover, molecular characterization of seven Giardia isolates from
three persons and four animal species (red-bellied monkey, silver marmoset,
Thomson's gazelle, and sheep) kept in an axenic in vitro culture was performed.
Based on the beta-giardin sequence fragment analysis, four assemblages of G.
intestinalis genotypes were identified (A, B, C and D). In humans, A and B G.
intestinalis genotypes and three subgenotypes, including a cosmopolitan
subgenotype A2 and two new subgenotypes A and B were detected. Furthermore, four 
G. intestinalis genotypes were found in animals, including three genotypes which 
are non-infectious to humans, namely: genotypes C and D in dogs and a
cervids-specific genotype A in red deer (Cervus elaphus), which indicate that
these animals do not constitute the source of infection to humans. On the other
hand, in a tamandua from the Zoological Garden in Poznań a new subgenotype B of
G. intestinalis was identified, which due to a close relationship with Giardia
isolates obtained from humans is potentially infectious to man. In none of the
studied faecal samples a mixed infection of Giardia was found. To date, nine
sequences of the partial beta-giardin gene have been deposited in the National
Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI), including two sequences of Giardia
isolates obtained from humans (GenBank accession numbers FJ009207, FJ009208),
three sequences of isolate obtained from red deer (GenBank accession numbers
EU621373, EU626198, EU216429), two sequences of both Giardia isolates obtained
from dogs (GenBank accession numbers FJ009205, FJ009206), and the single
sequences obtained from tamandua (GenBank accession number FJ009209) and from
Thomson's gazelle (GenBank accession number EU626199). According to the
literature, an axenic in vitro culture of G. intestinalis was obtained from a red
deer for the first time. Based on the analysis of the sequence of the
beta-giardin gene fragment obtained from the DNA isolated from cysts and
trophozoites it was proven that the red deer was infected with a single
population of Giardia and that during the axenisation of the culture no mutation 
in the DNA of the parasite's trophozoites took place. Probably the time distance 
that the DNA was isolated from the trophozoites kept in the culture was too short
to cause the mutation. This suggestion is confirmed by the results of the
genotyping of seven G. intestinalis isolates obtained from various host species
and kept in an axenic in vitro culture for at least a number of years. Based on
the molecular characteristics it was stated that all the studied isolates from
the axenic culture were identical and belonged to the same assemblage B. The
comparision with the sequences from GenBank database revealed that all mentioned 
isolates were 99% similar to the sequence of Giardia Nij5 isolate obtained from a
person from the Netherlands and characterised as genotype B1. Due to the sameness
of the molecular marker sequences it seems improbable that the identical G.
intestinalis genotype occurred in various time periods (the largest difference
was 14 years) in humans and in a number of animal species in diverse areas of
Wielkopolska region. Quite opposite, the long-term keeping of these isolates in
the homogenous conditions of an axenic in vitro culture leads to the selection of
a genotype or proves the instability of genotypes of this parasite. Long-term
studies need to be conducted in order to verify these hypothesis. Their results
will have a key meaning in explaining the genetic structure of the Giardia
population and in understanding the molecular epidemiology of giardiosis.


PMID: 20209826  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

