

2198. Am J Primatol. 2009 Apr;71(4):324-32. doi: 10.1002/ajp.20656.

Production and perception of sex differences in vocalizations of Wied's
black-tufted-ear marmosets (Callithrix kuhlii).

Smith AS(1), Birnie AK, Lane KR, French JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska at Omaha, Omaha, Nebraska
68182, USA. assmith@mail.unomaha.edu

Males and females from many species produce distinct acoustic variations of
functionally identical call types. Social behavior may be primed by sex-specific 
variation in acoustic features of calls. We present a series of acoustic analyses
and playback experiments as methods for investigating this subject. Acoustic
parameters of phee calls produced by Wied's black-tufted-ear marmosets
(Callithrix kuhlii) were analyzed for sex differences. Discriminant function
analyses showed that calls contained sufficient acoustic variation to predict the
sex of the caller. Several frequency variables differed significantly between the
sexes. Natural and synthesized calls were presented to male-female pairs. Calls
elicited differential behavioral responses based on the sex of the caller.
Marmosets became significantly more vigilant following the playback of male phee 
calls (both natural and synthetic) than following female phee calls. In a second 
playback experiment, synthesized calls were modified by independently
manipulating three parameters that were known to differ between the sexes (low-, 
peak-, and end-frequency). When end-frequency-modified calls were presented,
responsiveness was differentiable by sex of caller but did not differ from
responses to natural calls. This suggests that marmosets did not use
end-frequency to determine the sex of the caller. Manipulation of peak-and
low-frequency parameters eliminated the discrete behavioral responses to male and
female calls. Together, these parameters may be important features that encode
for the sex-specific signal. Recognition of sex by acoustic cues seems to be a
multivariate process that depends on the congruency of acoustic features.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20656 
PMCID: PMC2981084
PMID: 19090554  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

