

2207. Am J Primatol. 2009 Feb;71(2):165-70. doi: 10.1002/ajp.20636.

Contact calls of common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus): influence of age of
caller on antiphonal calling and other vocal responses.

Chen HC(1), Kaplan G, Rogers LJ.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Neuroscience and Animal Behaviour, University of New England,
Armidale, NSW 2351, Australia. hchen5@une.edu.au

Marmosets, as do many other primates, live in forest environments, are group
living and constantly at risk of predation. Retaining contact with one another is
therefore a matter of survival. We ask here whether their contact calls (phee and
twitter vocalizations) are in some way ordered acoustically by sex or age and
whether the calls of older marmosets elicit different responses than those of
younger marmosets. In our study, marmosets (2-14 years) were visually isolated
from conspecifics and the vocal responses to each isolated caller by other
marmosets in the colony were recorded. Vocal responses to phee calls largely
consisted of phee calls and, less commonly, twitter calls. No differences between
the responses to calls by males and females were apparent. However, we found a
strong positive and significant correlation between the caller's age and the
percentage of its phee calls receiving a phee response, and a significant
negative correlation between the caller's age and the percentage of its phee
calls receiving a twitter response. The older the marmoset, the more antiphonal
calling occurred. Two-syllable phee calls were emitted more often by older
marmosets (10-14 years) than by younger ones (2-6 years). Hence, we have found
age-dependent differences in phee-call production and a consistent change in the 
response received across the adult life-span. This age-dependent effect was
independent of kinship relations. This is the first evidence that marmosets
distinguish age by vocal parameters alone and make social decisions based on age.

(c) 2008 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20636 
PMID: 19026011  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

