

2212. Am J Phys Anthropol. 2009 Apr;138(4):403-20. doi: 10.1002/ajpa.20953.

Substrate determines asymmetrical gait dynamics in marmosets (Callithrix jacchus)
and squirrel monkeys (Saimiri boliviensis).

Young JW(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anthropology, University of Texas at Austin, Austin, TX 78712,
USA. jesse.young@mail.utexas.edu

Studies of skeletal pathology indicate that injury from falling accounts for most
long bone trauma in free-ranging primates, suggesting that primates should be
under strong selection to manifest morphological and behavioral mechanisms that
increase stability on arboreal substrates. Although previous studies have
identified several kinematic and kinetic features of primate symmetrical gaits
that serve to increase arboreal stability, very little work has focused on the
dynamics of primate asymmetrical gaits. Nevertheless, asymmetrical gaits typify
the rapid locomotion of most primates, particularly in smaller bodied taxa. This 
study investigated asymmetrical gait dynamics in growing marmosets and squirrel
monkeys moving on terrestrial and simulated arboreal supports (i.e., an elevated 
pole). Results showed that monkeys used several kinematic and kinetic adjustments
to increase stability on the pole, including reducing peak vertical forces,
limiting center of mass movements, increasing substrate contact durations, and
using shorter and more frequent strides (thus limiting disruptive whole-body
aerial phases). Marmosets generally showed greater adjustment to pole locomotion 
than did squirrel monkeys, perhaps as a result of their reduced grasping
abilities and retreat from the fine-branch niche. Ontogenetic increases in body
size had relatively little independent influence on asymmetrical gait dynamics
during pole locomotion, despite biomechanical theory suggesting that arboreal
instability is exacerbated as body size increases relative to substrate diameter.
Overall, this study shows that 1) symmetrical gaits are not the only stable way
to travel arboreally and 2) small-bodied primates utilize specific kinematic and 
kinetic adjustments to increase stability when using asymmetrical gaits on arbo
real substrates.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.20953 
PMID: 19003922  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

