

2213. Restor Neurol Neurosci. 2008;26(4-5):249-66.

Axonal regeneration in the organotypically cultured monkey retina: biological
aspects, dependence on substrates and age-related proteomic profiling.

Rose K(1), Schröer U, Volk GF, Schlatt S, König S, Feigenspan A, Thanos S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Ophthalmology, University Eye Hospital Münster,
Münster, Germany.

Injury to the mature primate and subprimate optic nerve results in irreversible
impairment and loss of vision, because the retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) fail to 
regenerate their cut axons within the optic nerve interior. This study was
performed to examine whether aging monkey RGCs retain the ability to regenerate
their axons in organ culture and whether axonal regeneration is associated with
specific proteomic profile. Retinal stripes obtained from marmoset eyes (C.
jacchus) were cultured between the day of birth and adult stages on different
substrates like laminin-1, laminin-2, collagen, matrigel and poly-D-lysine. No
neurotrophic factors were added to the medium. Axonal growth was monitored with
microscopy and immunohistochemistry. Onset and rate of growth was examined with
time-lapse videography. Vigorous regeneration of axons occurred from identifiable
morphological types of RGCs throughout all stages of life, although the numbers
of axons decreased with age. Axonal growth occurred virtually only on laminin-1. 
Growth correlated with re-expression of the laminin-1 receptor alpha6-integrin
and sustained staining for GAP-43 as shown by immunohistochemistry and
immunoblotting. At proteomic level, there is a maturation-dependent change in the
protein immunostaining within the retina. When retinal slices of the same age
were compared, regeneration-specific protein staining included calmodulin, fatty 
acid binding protein, alpha-crystallin, IFN-gamma, cyclin-dependent kinase
inhibitor (p21), beta-hemoglobin, 60s-ribosomal protein, GAP-DH and
ADP-ribosylation factor (ARF). To our knowledge these data are the first from
subhuman animals to suggest that axonal regeneration of injured RGCs is
correlated to expression of identifiable proteins within the retina.


PMID: 18997304  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

