

2217. J Neurosci. 2008 Oct 22;28(43):10972-82. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.1521-08.2008.

Lesions of the medial striatum in monkeys produce perseverative impairments
during reversal learning similar to those produced by lesions of the
orbitofrontal cortex.

Clarke HF(1), Robbins TW, Roberts AC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology and Behavioural and Clinical
Neuroscience Institute, University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB23EB, United
Kingdom. hfc23@cam.ac.uk

The ability to switch responding between two visual stimuli based on their
changing relationship with reward is dependent on the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC).
OFC lesions in humans, monkeys, and rats disrupt performance on a common test of 
this ability, the visual serial discrimination reversal task. This finding is of 
particular significance to our understanding of psychiatric disorders such as
obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) and schizophrenia, in which behavioral
inflexibility is a prominent symptom. Although OFC dysfunction can occur in these
disorders, there is considerable evidence for more widespread dysfunction within 
frontostriatal and frontoamygdalar circuitry. Because the contribution of these
subcortical structures to behavioral flexibility is poorly understood, the
present study compared the effects of excitotoxic lesions of the medial striatum 
(MS), amygdala, and OFC in the marmoset monkey on performance of the serial
reversal task. All monkeys were able to learn a novel stimulus-reward association
but, compared with both control and amygdala-lesioned monkeys, those with MS or
OFC lesions showed a perseverative impairment in their ability to reverse this
association. However, whereas both MS and OFC groups showed insensitivity to
negative feedback, only OFC-lesioned monkeys showed insensitivity to positive
feedback. These findings suggest that, for different reasons, both the MS and OFC
support behavioral flexibility after changes in reward contingencies, and are
consistent with the hypothesis that striatal and OFC dysfunction can contribute
to pathological perseveration.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.1521-08.2008 
PMCID: PMC3981993
PMID: 18945905  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

