

2220. Neuroscience. 2008 Dec 2;157(3):637-43. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2008.09.021. 
Epub 2008 Sep 18.

Segregated hemispheric pathways through the optic chiasm distinguish primates
from rodents.

Jeffery G(1), Levitt JB, Cooper HM.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Ophthalmology, University College London, Bath Street, London
EC1V 9EL, UK. g.jeffery@ucl.ac.uk

At the optic chiasm retinal fibers either cross the midline, or remain uncrossed.
Here we trace hemispheric pathways through the marmoset chiasm and show that
fibers from the lateral optic nerve pass directly toward the ipsilateral optic
tract without any significant change in fiber order and without approaching the
midline, while those from medial regions of the nerve decussate directly.
Anterograde labeling from one eye shows that the two hemispheric pathways remain 
segregated through the proximal nerve and chiasm with the uncrossed confined
laterally. Retrograde labeling from the optic tract confirms this. This clearly
demonstrates that hemispheric pathways are segregated through the primate chiasm.
Previous chiasmatic studies have been undertaken mainly on rodents and ferrets.
In these species there is a major change in fiber order pre-chiasmatically, where
crossed and uncrossed fibers mix, reflecting their embryological history when all
fibers approach the midline prior to their commitment to innervate either
hemisphere. This pattern was thought to be common to placental mammals. In
marsupials there is no change in fiber order and uncrossed fibers remain confined
laterally through nerve and chiasm, again, reflecting their developmental history
when all uncrossed fibers avoid the midline. Recently it has been shown that this
distinction is not a true dichotomy between placental mammals and marsupials, as 
fiber order in tree shrews and humans mirrors the marsupial pattern.
Architectural differences in the mature chiasm probably reflect different
developmental mechanisms regulating pathway choice. Our results therefore suggest
that both the organization and development of the primate optic chiasm differ
markedly from that revealed in rodents and carnivores.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2008.09.021 
PMCID: PMC2736912
PMID: 18854206  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

