

2245. J Toxicol Sci. 2008 Aug;33(3):315-25.

Prediction of drug-induced QT interval prolongation in telemetered common
marmosets.

Tabo M(1), Hara T, Sone S, Shishido N, Kuramoto S, Nakano K, Onodera H, Kimura K,
Kobayashi K.

Author information: 
(1)Safety Assessment Department, Research Division, Chugai Pharmaceutical Co.,
Ltd., Shizuoka. tabomty@chugai-pharm.co.jp

Drug-induced QT interval prolongation is a critical issue in development of new
chemical entities, so the pharmaceutical industry needs to evaluate risk as early
as possible. Common marmosets have been in the limelight in early-stage
development due to their small size, which requires only a small amount of test
drug. The purpose of this study was to determine the utility of telemetered
common marmosets for predicting drug-induced QT interval prolongation. Telemetry 
transmitters were implanted in common marmosets (male and female), and QT and RR 
intervals were measured. The QT interval was corrected for the RR interval by
applying Bazett's and Fridericia's correction formulas and individual rate
correction. Individual correction showed the least slope for the linear
regression of corrected QT (QTc) intervals against RR intervals, indicating that 
it dissociated changes in heart rate most effectively. With the individual
correction method, the QT-prolonging drugs (astemizole, dl-sotalol) showed QTc
interval prolongations and the non-QT-prolonging drugs (dl-propranolol,
nifedipine) did not show QTc interval prolongations. The plasma concentrations of
astemizole and dl-sotalol associated with QTc interval prolongations in common
marmosets were similar to those in humans, suggesting that the sensitivity of
common marmosets would be appropriate for evaluating risk of drug-induced QT
interval prolongation. In conclusion, telemetry studies in common marmosets are
useful for predicting clinical QT prolonging potential of drugs in early stage
development and require only a small amount of test drug.

DOI: 10.2131/jts.33.315 
PMID: 18670163  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

