

2275. Brain Res Bull. 2008 Jul 1;76(4):354-60. doi: 10.1016/j.brainresbull.2008.02.028.
Epub 2008 Mar 14.

Calcium-binding proteins in the circadian centers of the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus) and the rock cavy (Kerodon rupestris) brains.

Cavalcante JS(1), Britto LR, Toledo CA, Nascimento ES Jr, Lima RR, Pontes AL,
Costa MS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Biosciences Center, Federal University of Rio Grande
do Norte, 59072-970, Natal, RN, Brazil. jefsc@uol.com.br

The hypothalamic suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) and the thalamic intergeniculate
leaflet (IGL) are considered to be the main centers of the mammalian circadian
timing system. In primates, the IGL is included as part of the pregeniculate
nucleus (PGN), a cell group located mediodorsally to the dorsal lateral
geniculate nucleus. This work was carried out to comparatively evaluate the
immunohistochemical expression of the calcium-binding proteins calbindin D-28k
(CB), parvalbumin (PV), and calretinin (CR) into the circadian brain districts of
the common marmoset and the rock cavy. In both species, although no fibers,
terminals or perikarya showed PV-immunoreaction (IR) into the SCN, CB-IR
perikarya labeling was detected throughout the SCN rostrocaudal extent, seeming
to delimit its cytoarchitectonic borders. CR-IR perikarya and neuropil were
noticed into the ventral and dorsal portions of the SCN, lacking immunoreactivity
in the central core of the marmoset and filling the entire nucleus in the rock
cavy. The PGN of the marmoset presented a significant number of CB-, PV-, and
CR-IR perikarya throughout the nucleus. The IGL of the rocky cavy exhibited a
prominent CB- and CR-IR neuropil, showing similarity to the pattern found in
other rodents. By comparing with literature data from other mammals, the results 
of the present study suggest that CB, PV, and CR are differentially distributed
into the SCN and IGL among species. They may act either in concert or in a
complementary manner in the SCN and IGL, so as to participate in specific aspects
of the circadian regulation.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brainresbull.2008.02.028 
PMID: 18502310  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

