

2278. Brain. 2008 Jun;131(Pt 6):1574-87. doi: 10.1093/brain/awn085. Epub 2008 May 16.

Sprouting of dopamine terminals and altered dopamine release and uptake in
Parkinsonian dyskinaesia.

Lee J(1), Zhu WM, Stanic D, Finkelstein DI, Horne MH, Henderson J, Lawrence AJ,
O'Connor L, Tomas D, Drago J, Horne MK.

Author information: 
(1)Brain Injury and Repair, Howard Florey Institute, University of Melbourne,
Parkville,VIC, 3010, Australia.

Failed storage capacity, leading to pulsatile delivery of dopamine (DA) in the
striatum, is used to explain the emergence of 'wearing off' and dyskinaesia in
Parkinson's disease. In this study, we show that surviving DA neurons in 6-OHDA
lesioned rats sprout to re-innervate the striatum, and maintain terminal density 
until approximately 60% of neurons are lost. We demonstrate that DA terminal
density correlates with baseline striatal DA concentration ([DA]).
Electrochemical and synaptosome studies in 6-OHDA lesioned rats and primates
suggest that impaired striatal DA re-uptake and increased DA release from medial 
forebrain bundle fibres contribute to maintaining striatal DA levels. In lesioned
rats where terminal density fell by 60% or more, L-DOPA administration increased 
striatal DA levels markedly. The striatal [DA] produced by L-DOPA directly
correlated with the extent of dyskinaesia, suggesting that dyskinaesia was
related to high striatal [DA]. While sprouting and decreased dopamine uptake
transporter function would be expected to contribute to the marked increase in
L-DOPA induced [DA], the increased [DA] was most marked when DAergic fibres were 
>60% denervated, suggesting that other release sites, such as serotonergic fibres
might be contributing. In conclusion, the extent of dyskinaesia was directly
proportional to the extent of DA terminal denervation and levels of
extra-synaptic striatal DA. We propose that sprouting of DA terminals and
decreased dopamine uptake transporter function prevent the appearance of
Parkinsonian symptoms until about 60% loss of nigral neurons, but also contribute
to dysregulated striatal DA release that is responsible for the emergence of
dyskinaesia and 'wearing off'.

DOI: 10.1093/brain/awn085 
PMID: 18487277  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

