

2280. Theriogenology. 2008 Jul 1;70(1):115-20. doi:
10.1016/j.theriogenology.2008.03.011. Epub 2008 May 13.

Validation of non-fluorescent methods to reliably detect acrosomal and plasma
membrane integrity of common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) sperm.

Valle RR(1), Valle CM, Nichi M, Muniz JA, Nayudu PL, Guimarães MA.

Author information: 
(1)German Primate Centre (DPZ), Reproductive Biology Department, Kellnerweg 4,
Göttingen, Germany. rdrvalle@hotmail.com

Simple, rapid and stable sperm evaluation methods which have been optimized for
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) are critical for studies involving
collection and evaluation of sperm in the field. This is particularly important
for new species groups such as Callitrichidae where the sperm have been little
studied. Of this family, C. jacchus is the best known, and has been chosen as a
model species for other members of the genus Callithrix. The fundamental
evaluation parameters for sperm of any species are viability and acrosomal
status. Semen samples were collected by penile vibratory stimulation. To evaluate
sperm plasma membrane integrity, Eosin-Nigrosin was tested here for the common
marmoset sperm to be used under field conditions. Further, a non-fluorescent
stain for acrosome, the "Simple" stain, developed for domestic and wild cats, was
tested on common marmoset sperm. This was compared with a fluorescent staining,
Fluorescein isothiocyanate-Pisum sativum agglutinin (FITC-PSA), routinely used
and validated for common marmoset at the German Primate Centre to evaluate
acrosomal integrity. Results obtained with the "Simple" stain showed a marked
differentiation between sperm with intact and non-intact acrosome both with and
without ionophore treatment and closely correlated with results obtained with
FITC-PSA. Temperature had no effect on the results with the "Simple" stain and
the complete processing is simple enough to be carried out under field
conditions. These findings indicated that the "Simple" stain and Eosin-Nigrosin
provide rapid and accurate results for C. jacchus sperm and that those methods
can be reliably used as field tools for sperm evaluation for this species.

DOI: 10.1016/j.theriogenology.2008.03.011 
PMID: 18479742  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

