

2283. Am J Phys Anthropol. 2008 Sep;137(1):60-8. doi: 10.1002/ajpa.20846.

Placental efficiency and intrauterine resource allocation strategies in the
common marmoset pregnancy.

Rutherford JN(1), Tardif SD.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Policy Research and the Department of Anthropology, Northwestern
University, Evanston, Illinois 60208, USA. julienne-rutherford@northwestern.edu

Mothers and fetuses are expected to be in some degree of conflict over the
allocation of maternal resources to fetal growth in the intrauterine environment.
Variation in placental structure and function may be one way a fetus can
communicate need and quality to its mother, potentially manipulating maternal
investment in its favor. Whereas common marmosets typically produce twin litters,
they regularly give birth to triplet litters in captivity. The addition of
another fetus is a potential drain on maternal resource availability and thus a
source of elevated conflict over resource allocation. Marmoset littermates share 
a single placental mass, so that differences in the ratio of fetal to placental
weight across litter categories suggest the presence of differential intrauterine
strategies of resource allocation. The fetal/placental weight ratio was
calculated for 26 marmoset pregnancies, representing both twin and triplet
litters, to test the hypothesis that triplet fetuses respond to intrauterine
conflict by soliciting placental overgrowth as a means of accessing maternal
resources. In fact, relative to fetal mass, the triplet marmoset placenta is
significantly undergrown, with individual triplets associated with less placental
mass than their twin counterparts, suggesting that the triplet placenta is
relatively more efficient in its support of fetal growth. There still may be an
important role for maternal-fetal conflict in the programming of placental
structure and function. Placental adaptations that solicit potential increases of
maternal investment may occur at the microscopic or metabolic level, and thus may
not be reflected in the size of the placenta as a whole.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.20846 
PMID: 18470898  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

