

23. Transl Vis Sci Technol. 2022 Jan 3;11(1):14. doi: 10.1167/tvst.11.1.14.

A Robust Microbead Occlusion Model of Glaucoma for the Common Marmoset.

Kumar S(1), Benavente-Perez A(1), Ablordeppey R(1), Lin C(1), Viswanathan S(1),
Akopian A(1), Bloomfield SA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological and Vision Sciences, State University of New York
College of Optometry, New York, NY, USA.

Purpose: To establish a robust experimental model of glaucoma in the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a New World primate, using an intracameral
microbead injection technique.
Methods: Elevated intraocular pressure (IOP) was induced by an injection of
polystyrene microbeads. Morphologic changes in the retina and optic nerve of
glaucomatous eyes were assessed and electroretinogram (ERG) recordings were
performed to evaluate functional changes.
Results: Microbead injections induced a sustained IOP elevation for at least 10
weeks in a reproducible manner. At the end of the 10-week experimental period,
there was significant loss of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) in all quadrants and 
eccentricities, although it was more prominent in the mid-peripheral and
peripheral regions. This was consistent with a thinning of the Retinal nerve
fiber layer (RNFL) seen in spectral domain optical coherence tomography scans.
Surviving RGCs showed marked changes in morphology, including somatic shrinkage
and dendritic atrophy. Retinas also showed significant gliosis. The amplitude of 
the ERG photopic negative response, with subsequent a- and b-wave changes, was
reduced in glaucomatous eyes. The optic nerve of glaucomatous eyes showed
expanded cupping, disorganization of the astrocytic matrix, axonal loss, and
gliosis.
Conclusions: We developed a robust and reproducible model of glaucoma in the
marmoset. The model exhibits both structural and functional alterations of retina
and optic nerve characteristic of glaucoma in humans and animal models.
Translational Relevance: The glaucoma model in the marmoset described here forms 
a robust method to study the disease etiology, progression, and potential
therapies in a nonhuman primate, allowing for more effective translation of
animal data to humans.

DOI: 10.1167/tvst.11.1.14 
PMCID: PMC8762714
PMID: 35019964  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

