

2301. Hear Res. 2008 May;239(1-2):107-25. doi: 10.1016/j.heares.2008.01.015. Epub 2008 
Feb 8.

Coding of FM sweep trains and twitter calls in area CM of marmoset auditory
cortex.

Kajikawa Y(1), de la Mothe LA, Blumell S, Sterbing-D'Angelo SJ, D'Angelo W,
Camalier CR, Hackett TA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Vanderbilt University, United States.

The primate auditory cortex contains three interconnected regions (core, belt,
parabelt), which are further subdivided into discrete areas. The caudomedial area
(CM) is one of about seven areas in the belt region that has been the subject of 
recent anatomical and physiological studies conducted to define the functional
organization of auditory cortex. The main goal of the present study was to
examine temporal coding in area CM of marmoset monkeys using two related classes 
of acoustic stimuli: (1) marmoset twitter calls; and (2) frequency-modulated (FM)
sweep trains modeled after the twitter call. The FM sweep trains were presented
at repetition rates between 1 and 24 Hz, overlapping the natural phrase frequency
of the twitter call (6-8 Hz). Multiunit recordings in CM revealed robust
phase-locked responses to twitter calls and FM sweep trains. For the latter,
phase-locking quantified by vector strength (VS) was best at repetition rates
between 2 and 8 Hz, with a mean of about 5 Hz. Temporal response patterns were
not strictly phase-locked, but exhibited dynamic features that varied with the
repetition rate. To examine these properties, classification of the repetition
rate from the temporal response pattern evoked by twitter calls and FM sweep
trains was examined by Fisher's linear discrimination analysis (LDA). Response
classification by LDA revealed that information was encoded not only by
phase-locking, but also other components of the temporal response pattern. For FM
sweep trains, classification was best for repetition rates from 2 to 8 Hz. Thus, 
the majority of neurons in CM can accurately encode the envelopes of temporally
complex stimuli over the behaviorally-relevant range of the twitter call. This
suggests that CM could be engaged in processing that requires relatively precise 
temporal envelope discrimination, and supports the hypothesis that CM is
positioned at an early stage of processing in the auditory cortex of primates.

DOI: 10.1016/j.heares.2008.01.015 
PMCID: PMC2581800
PMID: 18342463  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

