

2310. Perception. 2007;36(10):1419-30.

Sources of somatosensory input to the caudal belt areas of auditory cortex.

Hackett TA(1), Smiley JF, Ulbert I, Karmos G, Lakatos P, de la Mothe LA,
Schroeder CE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Hearing and Speech Sciences, Vanderbilt University, Nashville,
TN 37203, USA. troy.a.hackett@vanderbilt.edu

The auditory cortex of nonhuman primates is comprised of a constellation of at
least twelve interconnected areas distributed across three major regions on the
superior temporal gyrus: core, belt, and parabelt. Individual areas are
distinguished on the basis of unique profiles comprising architectonic features, 
thalamic and cortical connections, and neuron response properties. Recent
demonstrations of convergent auditory-somatosensory interactions in the
caudomedial (CM) and caudolateral (CL) belt areas prompted us to pursue
anatomical studies to identify the source(s) of somatic input to auditory cortex.
Corticocortical and thalamocortical connections were revealed by injecting
neuroanatomical tracers into CM, CL, and adjoining fields of marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus jacchus) and macaque (Macaca mulatta) monkeys. In addition to auditory
cortex, the cortical connections of CM and CL included somatosensory
(retroinsular, Ri; granular insula, Ig) and multisensory areas (temporal parietal
occipital, temporal parietal temporal). Thalamic inputs included the medial
geniculate complex and several multisensory nuclei (suprageniculate, posterior,
limitans, medial pulvinar), but not the ventroposterior complex. Injections of
the core (A1, R) and rostromedial areas of auditory cortex revealed sparse
multisensory connections. The results suggest that areas Ri and Ig are the
principle sources of somatosensory input to the caudal belt, while multisensory
regions of cortex and thalamus may also contribute. The present data add to
growing evidence of multisensory convergence in cortical areas previously
considered to be 'unimodal', and also indicate that auditory cortical areas
differ in this respect.

DOI: 10.1068/p5841 
PMID: 18265825  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

