

2311. J Comp Neurol. 2008 Apr 10;507(5):1811-30. doi: 10.1002/cne.21652.

Distribution of the protein IMPACT, an inhibitor of GCN2, in the mouse, rat, and 
marmoset brain.

Bittencourt S(1), Pereira CM, Avedissian M, Delamano A, Mello LE, Castilho BA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Universidade Federal de São Paulo, São Paulo, SP,
04023-062, Brazil.

IMPACT is an inhibitor of GCN2, a kinase that phosphorylates the alpha subunit of
the translation initiation factor 2 (eIF2 alpha). GCN2 has been implicated in
regulating feeding behavior and learning and memory in mice. IMPACT is highly
abundant in the brain, suggesting its relevance in the control of GCN2 activation
in the central nervous system. We describe here the distribution of IMPACT in the
brain of rodents (mice and rats) and of a primate (marmoset) using highly
specific antibodies raised against the mouse IMPACT protein. Neurons expressing
high levels of IMPACT were found in most areas of the brain. In the hippocampal
formation the lack of IMPACT in the dentate gyrus granule cells was striking. The
hypothalamus is exceptionally rich in neurons expressing high levels of IMPACT,
particularly in the suprachiasmatic nucleus. The only exception to this pattern
was the ventromedial nucleus. The thalamic neurons are mostly devoid of IMPACT,
with the exception of the paraventricular, reuniens and reticular nuclei, and
intergeniculate leaf. The brainstem displayed high levels of IMPACT. For the
marmoset, IMPACT expression in the brain is not as prominent when compared to
other organs. In the marmoset brain the pattern of IMPACT expression was similar 
to rodents in most areas, except for the very strong labeling of the Purkinje
cells, the lack of IMPACT-positive neurons in the nucleus reuniens, and weak
labeling of interneurons in the hippocampus. GCN1, the activator of GCN2 to which
IMPACT binds, is widely distributed in all neuronal populations, and all
IMPACT-positive cells were also GCN1-positive. The data presented herein suggest 
that IMPACT may be involved in biochemical homeostatic mechanisms that would
prevent GCN2 activation and therefore ATF4 (CREB-2) synthesis in neurons.

(c) 2008 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.21652 
PMID: 18260151  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

