

2323. J Virol. 2008 Mar;82(6):3054-60. Epub 2007 Dec 19.

Virus-specific T-cell immunity correlates with control of GB virus B infection in
marmosets.

Woollard DJ(1), Haqshenas G, Dong X, Pratt BF, Kent SJ, Gowans EJ.

Author information: 
(1)The Burnet Institute, G.P.O. Box 2284, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
woollard@burnet.edu.au

GB virus B (GBV-B) is a hepatotropic virus that is closely related to hepatitis C
virus (HCV). GBV-B causes acute hepatitis in infected marmosets and tamarins and 
is therefore a useful small-animal model for the study of HCV. We investigated
virus-specific T-cell responses in marmosets infected with GBV-B. Gamma
interferon (IFN-gamma) enzyme-linked immunospot (ELISPOT) assay responses in the 
peripheral blood of two marmosets were assessed throughout the course of GBV-B
infection. These T-cell responses were directed against the GBV-B nonstructural
proteins 3 (NS3), 4A (NS4A), and 5B (NS5B), and their appearance was temporally
associated with clearance of viremia. These marmosets were then rechallenged with
GBV-B at least 3 months after clearance of the primary infection to determine if 
the animals were protected from reinfection. There was no detectable viremia
following reinfection, although a sharp increase in T-cell responses against
GBV-B proteins was observed. Epitope mapping of T-cell responses to GBV-B was
performed with liver and blood samples from both marmosets after rechallenge with
GBV-B. Three shared, immunodominant T-cell epitopes within NS3 were identified in
animals with multiple common major histocompatibility complex class I alleles.
IFN-gamma ELISPOT responses were also detected in the livers of two marmosets
that had resolved a primary GBV-B infection. These responses were high in
frequency and were directed against epitopes within GBV-B NS3, NS4A, and NS5B
proteins. These results indicate that virus-specific T-cell responses are
detectable in the liver and blood of GBV-B-infected marmosets and that the
clearance of GBV-B is associated with the appearance of these responses.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.01153-07 
PMCID: PMC2259009
PMID: 18094181  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

