

2324. Vis Neurosci. 2007 Nov-Dec;24(6):857-74.

First order connections of the visual sector of the thalamic reticular nucleus in
marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus).

Fitzgibbon T(1), Szmajda BA, Martin PR.

Author information: 
(1)Discipline of Anatomy & Histology, School of Medical Sciences and Bosch
Institute, University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW 2006 Australia.
tomf@anatomy.usyd.edu.au

The thalamic reticular nucleus (TRN) supplies an important inhibitory input to
the dorsal thalamus. Previous studies in non-primate mammals have suggested that 
the visual sector of the TRN has a lateral division, which has connections with
first-order (primary) sensory thalamic and cortical areas, and a medial division,
which has connections with higher-order (association) thalamic and cortical
areas. However, the question whether the primate TRN is segregated in the same
manner is controversial. Here, we investigated the connections of the TRN in a
New World primate, the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). The topography of labeled
cells and terminals was analyzed following iontophoretic injections of tracers
into the primary visual cortex (V1) or the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus
(LGNd). The results show that rostroventral TRN, adjacent to the LGNd, is
primarily connected with primary visual areas, while the most caudal parts of the
TRN are associated with higher order visual thalamic areas. A small region of the
TRN near the caudal pole of the LGNd (foveal representation) contains connections
where first (lateral TRN) and higher order visual areas (medial TRN) overlap.
Reciprocal connections between LGNd and TRN are topographically organized, so
that a series of rostrocaudal injections within the LGNd labeled cells and
terminals in the TRN in a pattern shaped like rostrocaudal overlapping "fish
scales." We propose that the dorsal areas of the TRN, adjacent to the top of the 
LGNd, represent the lower visual field (connected with medial LGNd), and the more
ventral parts of the TRN contain a map representing the upper visual field
(connected with lateral LGNd).

DOI: 10.1017/S0952523807070770 
PMID: 18093372  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

