

2326. Brain Res. 2008 Jan 16;1189:219-28. Epub 2007 Nov 1.

Exploring the neuroprotective effects of modafinil in a marmoset Parkinson model 
with immunohistochemistry, magnetic resonance imaging and spectroscopy.

van Vliet SA(1), Blezer EL, Jongsma MJ, Vanwersch RA, Olivier B, Philippens IH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Diagnosis and Therapy, TNO Defence, Security and Safety,
Rijswijk, The Netherlands. s.a.m.van.vliet@med.umcg.nl

Erratum in
    Brain Res. 2008 Apr 14;1204:123. van Vlieta, S A M [corrected to van Vliet, S A
M].

Neuroprotective therapeutics stop or slow down the degeneration process in animal
models of Parkinson's disease (PD). Neuronal survival in PD animal models is
often measured by immunohistochemistry. However, dynamic changes in the pathology
of the brain cannot be explored with this technique. Application of proton
magnetic resonance (MR) imaging (MRI) and spectroscopy (MRS) can cover this
lacuna as these techniques are non-invasive and can be repeated over time in the 
same animal. Therefore, the sensitivity of both techniques to measure changes in 
PD-pathology was explored in an experiment studying the neuroprotective effects
of the vigilance enhancer modafinil in a marmoset PD model. Eleven marmoset
monkeys were treated with the neurotoxin 1-methyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine
(MPTP). Six of these 11 animals, simultaneously, received a daily oral dose of
modafinil (100 mg/kg) and five received vehicle for 27 days. MR experiments were 
performed at baseline and 1 and 3.5 weeks after the MPTP intoxication period
after which brains were analyzed with immunohistochemistry. Tyrosine hydroxylase 
immunoreactive (TH-IR) staining of dopamine neurons of the substantia nigra pars 
compacta confirmed that modafinil was able to partially prevent the MPTP-induced 
neuronal damage. In MRS, N-acetylaspartate (NAA)/phosphocreatine (tCR) ratios
confirmed the protective effect indicating that this is a sensitive measure to
detect neuroprotection in the MPTP marmoset model. Furthermore, the number of
TH-IR positive neurons and the NAA/tCR ratio were significantly correlated to
behavioral observations indicating that the changes measured in the brain are
also reflected in the behavior and vice versa.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brainres.2007.10.059 
PMID: 18076869  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

