

2330. Psychopharmacology (Berl). 2008 Mar;197(1):59-66. Epub 2007 Dec 5.

Efficacy of caffeine and modafinil in counteracting sleep deprivation in the
marmoset monkey.

van Vliet SA(1), Jongsma MJ, Vanwersch RA, Olivier B, Philippens IH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Diagnosis and Therapy, TNO Defence, Safety and Security, Lange
Kleiweg 137, 2288, GJ , Rijswijk, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: The effects of sleep deprivation are a burden in our 24-h
society. The use of wake-promoting compounds could improve the performance in
situations where sleep cannot be allowed. In this study, the efficacy of the
wake-promoting compounds, modafinil and caffeine, in counteracting the effects of
24-h sleep deprivation in the marmoset monkey were tested. As caffeine is
habitually used, the efficacy of both compounds after short- and long-term use
was investigated.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: After a normal active day, the animals were kept awake and
received wake-promoting compounds during the whole night. Three times during the 
sleep-deprived night, putative fatigue was assessed with an activity test and the
vigilance and ability to execute a task was assessed with a hand-eye coordination
(HEC) task.
RESULTS: Both compounds were able to counteract to some extent the decline in
performance. Modafinil was able to keep the activity at baseline performance, but
performance on the HEC task was not improved. Caffeine was able to keep
performance in the HEC task at a level just below daytime level but was not able 
to keep activity at daytime levels during the last part of the night. Caffeine
and modafinil administration for 2 weeks showed a comparable effect on activity
as acute use. The performance on the HEC task was similar after chronic caffeine 
and improved after chronic modafinil.
CONCLUSION: It is therefore concluded that modafinil and caffeine were both able 
to postpone or prevent the decline in vigilance and psychomotor performance and
increase in fatigue induced by sleep deprivation.

DOI: 10.1007/s00213-007-1005-7 
PMID: 18057918  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

