

2332. Horm Behav. 2008 Jan;53(1):274-86. Epub 2007 Oct 17.

Post-conception reproductive competition in cooperatively breeding common
marmosets.

Saltzman W(1), Liedl KJ, Salper OJ, Pick RR, Abbott DH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of California, Riverside, CA 92521, USA.
saltzman@ucr.edu

Common marmosets are cooperatively breeding monkeys that exhibit high female
reproductive skew. Subordinate females usually fail to breed as a consequence of 
ovulation suppression and inhibition of sexual behavior, and, even when they do
breed, typically rear fewer infants than dominants. We evaluated possible
mechanisms of post-conception reproductive competition by comparing hormonal
profiles across pregnancy, pregnancy outcomes, infant survivorship, and behavior 
in laboratory-housed families containing one (N=9) or two (N=7) breeding females.
Breeding females in plurally breeding groups did not exhibit well-defined
dominance relationships and rarely engaged in escalated aggression with one
another. No significant differences were found among singly breeding mothers,
plurally breeding mothers, and plurally breeding daughters in urinary chorionic
gonadotropin or estradiol sulfate concentrations during pregnancy, fetal
biparietal diameter, frequency of spontaneous abortion, frequency of stillbirths,
number of live-born infants per litter, or infant mortality rates. When females
gave birth while another female in the family was pregnant, however, their
infants were highly likely to be killed. The perpetrator was definitively
identified in only one family, in which a pregnant female killed her daughter's
infant. These results are consistent with observations of free-living common
marmosets and suggest that breeding females do not regularly influence one
another's pregnancy outcomes, but that they may commonly kill each other's
infants, especially during their own pregnancy. Our findings further suggest that
infanticide by breeding females may have selected for the evolution of
reproductive restraint in subordinate female marmosets.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2007.10.005 
PMID: 18045596  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

