

2339. J Cereb Blood Flow Metab. 2008 Apr;28(4):786-96. Epub 2007 Nov 14.

Intraluminal thread model of focal stroke in the non-human primate.

Freret T(1), Bouet V, Toutain J, Saulnier R, Pro-Sistiaga P, Bihel E, Mackenzie
ET, Roussel S, Schumann-Bard P, Touzani O.

Author information: 
(1)University of Caen, CNRS-UMR 6185, Cyceron, Caen, France.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a New World monkey, has recently been
used as a model of focal cerebral ischaemia. Here, we sought to develop a stroke 
model in this species using an intraluminal approach to occlude the middle
cerebral artery (MCA). This technically simple procedure allows both transient
and permanent ischaemia with minimal morbidity. Ten common marmosets underwent
either transient (3 h) or permanent ischaemia by the insertion of a nylon
filament through the external carotid artery up to the origin of the MCA.
Cerebral blood flow (CBF) was monitored by the laser-Doppler flowmetry technique.
Sensorimotor functions were regularly evaluated, and histologic,
immunohistochemical, and magnetic resonance imaging analyses were performed 8
days after the occlusion. The surgical procedure was achieved straightforwardly
without postoperative mortality or cerebral haemorrhage. All animals displayed a 
consistent decrease in CBF that remained stable over 3 h. Infarction affected
both cortical and subcortical structures. Although not statistically significant,
the volume of infarction was smaller in marmosets subjected to transient
ischaemia compared to those permanently occluded (237+/-139 and 358+/-118 mm3,
respectively). In all the behavioural tests used, reperfused marmosets exhibited 
fewer neurologic and functional impairments compared to permanently occluded
ones. We show the feasibility of the induction of permanent or transient focal
cerebral ischaemia in the marmoset using an intraluminal approach with minimal
invasion. This model could be suitable as an advanced screening for potential
stroke therapies in which behavioural, imaging, and histologic analyses can be
compared.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.jcbfm.9600575 
PMID: 18000514  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

