

2340. J Vet Sci. 2007 Dec;8(4):329-33.

Immunolocalization of anion exchanger 1 (Band 3) in the renal collecting duct of 
the common marmoset.

Song JH(1), Kim YH, Kang TC, Won MH, Suh JG, Hyun BH, Oh YS, Ryu SY, Jung JY.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Veterinary Medicine and Institute of Veterinary Science,
Chungnam National University, Daejeon 305-764, Korea.

The purpose of this study was to determine the expression and distribution of
band 3 in the collecting duct and connecting tubules of the kidney of the
marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus), and to establish whether band 3 is
expressed in type A intercalated cells. The intracellular localization of band 3 
in the different populations of intercalated cells was determined by
double-labeling immunohistochemistry. Immunohistochemical microscopy demonstrated
that band 3 is located in the basolateral plasma membranes of all type A
intercalated cells in the connecting tubule (CNT), cortical collecting duct
(CCD), and outer medullary collecting duct (OMCD) of the marmoset. However, type 
B intercalated cells and non-A/non-B intercalated cells did not show band 3
labeling. Electron microscopy of the CNT, CCD and OMCD confirmed the light
microscopic observation of the basolateral plasma membrane staining for band 3 in
a subpopulation of interacted cells. Basolateral staining was seen on the plasma 
membrane and small coated vesicles in the perinuclear structure, some of which
were located in the Golgi region. In addition, there was no labeling of band 3 in
the mitochondria of the CNT, CCD and in OMCD cells. The intensity of the
immunostaining of the basolateral membrane was less in the CNT than in the CCD
and OMCD. In contrast, band 3 immunoreactivity was greater in the intracellular
vesicles of the CNT. From these results, we suggest that the basolateral
Cl(-)/HCO(3)(-) exchanger in the monkey kidney is in a more active state in the
collecting duct than in the CNT.

DOI: 10.4142/jvs.2007.8.4.329 
PMCID: PMC2868147
PMID: 17993745  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

