

2341. J Microbiol. 2007 Oct;45(5):431-40.

Natural iminosugar derivatives of 1-deoxynojirimycin inhibit glycosylation of
hepatitis viral envelope proteins.

Jacob JR(1), Mansfield K, You JE, Tennant BC, Kim YH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Sciences, College of Veterinary Medicine, Cornell
University, NY 14853, USA.

A silkworm (Bombyx mori L.) extract known to contain naturally occurring
iminosugars, including 1-deoxynojirimycin (1-DNJ) derived from the mulberry tree 
(Morus alba L.), was evaluated in surrogate HCV and HBV in vitro assays.
Antiviral activity of the silkworm extract and one of its purified constituents, 
1-DNJ, was demonstrated against bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) and GB virus-B
(GBV-B), both members of the Flaviviridae family, and against woodchuck hepatitis
virus (WHV) and hepatitis B virus (HBV), both members of the Hepadnaviridae
family of viruses. The silkworm extract exhibited a 1,300 fold greater antiviral 
effect against BVDV in comparison to purified 1-DNJ. Glycoprotein processing of
BVDV envelope proteins was disrupted upon treatment with the naturally derived
components. The glycosylation of the WHV envelope proteins was affected largely
by treatment with the silkworm extract than with purified 1-DNJ as well. The
mechanism of action for this therapy may lie in the generation of defective
particles that are unable to initiate the next cycle of infection as demonstrated
by inhibition of GBV-B in vitro. We postulate that the five constituent
iminosugars present in the silkworm extract contribute, in a synergistic manner, 
toward the antiviral effects observed for the inhibition of intact maturation of 
hepatitis viral particles and may complement conventional therapies. These
results indicate that pre-clinical testing of the natural silkworm extract with
regards to the efficacy of treatment against viral hepatitis infections can be
evaluated in the respective animal models, in preparation for clinical trials in 
humans.


PMID: 17978803  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

