

2362. Endocrinology. 2007 Dec;148(12):6062-72. Epub 2007 Sep 13.

Chorionic gonadotropin beta-subunit gene expression in the marmoset pituitary is 
controlled by steroidogenic factor 1, early growth response protein 1, and
pituitary homeobox factor 1.

Henke A(1), Luetjens CM, Simoni M, Gromoll J.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Reproductive Medicine, University Clinic Münster, Domagkstrasse
11, Münster, Germany.

In most mammals, the gonads are under the control of the pituitary gonadotropins 
LH and FSH. However, in the common marmoset monkey Callithrix jacchus, no LH is
detectable in the pituitary but chorionic gonadotropin (CG) instead, normally
produced in the placenta. This study investigated the mechanism of CGbeta subunit
activation in the pituitary and why humans do not express CG in the pituitary.
5'-Rapid amplification of cDNA ends, EMSA, and promoter-driven luciferase assays 
performed with the gonadotropic LbetaT2 cells showed that marmoset monkey CGbeta 
is GnRH responsive and activated similar to human LHbeta by the transcription
factors steroidogenic factor 1 (SF1), early growth response protein 1 (Egr1), and
pituitary homeobox factor 1 (Pitx1) and displayed a transcriptional start site 7 
bp upstream of exon 1. In contrast, the human CGbeta promoter displayed in the
binding elements for pituitary homeobox factor 1 and early growth response
protein 1 three consensus sequence mismatches, leading to very low activity that 
could be drastically increased by mutation to the consensus sequences. Vice
versa, marmoset CGbeta promoter activity was reduced after introduction of the
human CGbeta mismatches. An in vivo study in pregnant marmoset monkeys showed
that during pregnancy, there is no significant decrease of pituitary CG
production, contrasting human LH down-regulation. In conclusion, pituitary CG
production is lacking in humans due to the absence of appropriate DNA-binding
elements, which are present in marmosets, thereby enabling GnRH activation of
expression. However, during pregnancy of marmosets, pituitary CG expression is
not inhibited.

DOI: 10.1210/en.2007-0825 
PMID: 17872365  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

