

2367. J Comp Neurol. 2007 Oct 20;504(6):646-58.

Developmental changes in cellular prion protein in primate visual cortex.

Laffont-Proust I(1), Fonta C, Renaud L, Hässig R, Moya KL.

Author information: 
(1)Institut National de la Santé et de la Recherche Médicale Avenir Team--Human
Prion Diseases, IFR70, Neuropathology, Salpêtrière Hospital, Paris 75013, France.

Cellular prion protein (PrP(c)) is a cell surface glycoprotein highly expressed
in neurons, and a protease-resistant conformer of the protein accumulates in the 
brain parenchyma in prion diseases. In human prion diseases, visual cortex and
visual function can be affected. We examined both the levels and the localization
of PrP(c) in developing visual cortex of the common marmoset. Western blot
analysis showed that PrP(c) increased from the day of birth through adulthood,
and this increase correlated with the progression of synapse formation.
Immunohistochemistry showed that PrP(c) was present in fiber tracts of the
neonate, and this immunoreactivity was lost with maturation. Within the neuropil,
the laminar distribution of PrP(c) changed with age. In the neonate, PrP(c)
immunoreactivity was strongest in layer 1, where the earliest synapses form. At
the end of the first postnatal week, layer 4C, as identified by its strong
cytochrome oxidase activity, was noticeably lighter in terms of PrP(c)
immunoreactivity than the adjacent layers. The contrast between the strong
immunoreactivity in both supragranular and infragranular layers and weak
immunoreactivity in layer 4C increased with age. Layers 2/3 and 5 contained more 
intense PrP(c) immunoreactivity; these layers receive thalamic input from the
koniocellular division of the LGN, and these layers of the LGN also had strong
PrP(c) immunoreactivity. Together, these results provide evidence for PrP(c)
localization in an identified functional pathway and may shed some light on prion
disease pathogenesis.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.21475 
PMID: 17722030  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

