

2368. Theriogenology. 2007 Oct 1;68(6):861-72. Epub 2007 Aug 21.

Effects of ovarian stimulation, with and without human chorionic gonadotrophin,
on oocyte meiotic and developmental competence in the marmoset monkey (Callithrix
jacchus).

Grupen CG(1), Gilchrist RB, Nayudu PL, Barry MF, Schulz SJ, Ritter LJ, Armstrong 
DT.

Author information: 
(1)Research Centre for Reproductive Health, School of Paediatrics and
Reproductive Health, The University of Adelaide, Adelaide, SA 5005, Australia.
cgrupen@vetsci.usyd.edu.au

A reliable ovarian stimulation protocol for marmosets is needed to enhance their 
use as a model for studying human and non-human primate oocyte biology. In this
species, a standard dose of hCG did not effectively induce oocyte maturation in
vivo. The objectives of this study were to characterize ovarian response to an
FSH priming regimen in marmosets, given without or with a high dose of hCG, and
to determine the meiotic and developmental competence of the oocytes isolated.
Ovaries were removed from synchronized marmosets treated with FSH alone (50 IU/d 
for 6 d) or the same FSH treatment combined with a single injection of hCG (500
IU). Cumulus-oocyte complexes (COCs) were isolated from large (>1.5mm) and small 
(0.7-1.5mm) antral follicles. In vivo-matured oocytes were subsequently activated
parthenogenetically or fertilized in vitro. Immature oocytes were subjected to in
vitro maturation and then activated parthenogenetically. Treatment with FSH and
hCG combined increased the number of expanded COCs from large antral follicles
compared with FSH alone (23.5 +/- 9.3 versus 6.4 +/- 2.7, mean +/- S.E.M.).
Approximately 90% of oocytes surrounded by expanded cumulus cells at the time of 
isolation were meiotically mature. A blastocyst formation rate of 47% was
achieved following fertilization of in vivo-matured oocytes, whereas
parthenogenetic activation failed to induce development to the blastocyst stage. 
The capacity of oocytes to complete meiosis in vitro and cleave was positively
correlated with follicle diameter. A dramatic effect of follicle size on spindle 
formation was observed in oocytes that failed to complete meiosis in vitro. Using
the combined FSH and hCG regimen described in this study, large numbers of in
vivo matured marmoset oocytes could be reliably collected in a single cycle,
making the marmoset a valuable model for studying oocyte maturation in human and 
non-human primates.

DOI: 10.1016/j.theriogenology.2007.07.009 
PMID: 17714774  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

