

2373. J Comp Neurol. 2007 Oct 1;504(4):427-39.

Molecular, cellular, and functional characterizations of pituitary adenylate
cyclase-activating polypeptide and its receptors in the cerebellum of New and Old
World monkeys.

Aubert N(1), Basille M, Falluel-Morel A, Vaudry D, Bucharles C, Jolivel V, Fisch 
C, De Jouffrey S, Le Bigot JF, Fournier A, Vaudry H, Gonzalez BJ.

Author information: 
(1)Institut National de la Santé et de la Recherche Médicale (INSERM) U413,
Laboratory of Cellular and Molecular Neuroendocrinology, European Institute for
Peptide Research (IFRMP 23), University of Rouen, 76821 Mont-Saint-Aignan,
France.

The neuropeptide pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP)
exerts trophic activities during cerebellar development, and a neuroprotective
effect of PACAP has been demonstrated in pathological conditions such as stroke. 
However, all these data have been obtained in rodents, and neuroprotective
effects of PACAP in primates remain unknown. Because of their evolutionary
relationships with humans, monkeys represent powerful models for validating the
therapeutic interest in PACAP. The objective of the present study was to
characterize PACAP and its receptors in the cerebellum of two nonhuman primates. 
RT-PCR and in situ hybridization experiments revealed that PACAP is expressed in 
the cerebellum by Purkinje cells. Via immunohistochemistry, PACAP was detected in
Purkinje cells and radial glial fibers. With regard to PACAP receptors, PAC1-R
and VPAC1-R were detected by RT-PCR. In situ hybridization revealed a strong
expression of PAC1-R and VPAC1-R in the granule cell layer (GCL), and VPAC1-R was
also expressed in the Purkinje cell layer. A high density of PACAP binding sites 
was visualized in the GCL and the Purkinje cell layer. Competition studies
indicated that, in the GCL, PACAP induced complete displacement of
[(125)I]PACAP27 binding, whereas vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) was a
weak competitor. In contrast, in the Purkinje cell layer, both PACAP and VIP
displaced [(125)I]PACAP27 binding. Measurement of cAMP levels showed that PACAP
is a powerful activator of adenylyl cyclase, whereas VIP is about 100-fold less
potent. Altogether, these observations constitute the first demonstration of a
functional PACAPergic system in monkey cerebellum. They strongly suggest that
neuroprotective effects of PACAP can be transposed to primates, including human.

(c) 2007 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.21451 
PMID: 17663433  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

