

2376. Acta Histochem Cytochem. 2007 Jul 3;40(3):83-92.

Tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)- and aromatic-L-amino acid decarboxylase
(AADC)-immunoreactive neurons of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) brain: 
an immunohistochemical analysis.

Karasawa N(1), Hayashi M, Yamada K, Nagatsu I, Iwasa M, Takeuchi T, Uematsu M,
Watanabe K, Onozuka M.

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Care and Rehabilitation, Seijoh University, Tokai, Aichi 476-8588, 
Japan.

From the perspective of comparative morphology, the distribution of
non-monoaminergic neurons in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) was
investigated using an immunohistochemical method with specific antibodies to
tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and aromatic-L-amino acid decarboxylase
(AADC).TH-immunoreactive (IR) neurons (but not AADC-IR) neurons were observed in 
the olfactory tubercle, preoptic suprachiasmatic nucleus, periventricular
hypothalamic nucleus, arcuate nucleus, paraventricular nucleus, periaqueductal
gray matter, medial longitudinal fasciculus, substantia nigra, and nucleus
solitaris. In contrast, AADC-IR (but not TH-IR), small, oval and spindle-shaped
neurons were sparsely distributed in the following areas: the hypothalamus from
the anterior nucleus to the lateral nucleus, the dorsomedial nucleus, the
dorsomedial area of the medial mammillary nucleus and the arcuate nucleus; the
midbrain, including the stria medullaris and substantia nigra; and the medulla
oblongata, including the dorsal area of the nucleus solitaris and the medullary
reticular nucleus. The distribution of AADC-IR neurons was not as extensive in
the marmoset as it is in rats. However, these neurons were located in the
marmoset, but not the rat substantia nigra. Furthermore, AADC-IR neurons that are
present in the human striatum were absent in that of the marmoset. The present
results indicate that the distribution of non-monoaminergic neurons in the brain 
of the common marmoset is unique and different from that in humans and rodents.

DOI: 10.1267/ahc.06019 
PMCID: PMC1931487
PMID: 17653300 

