

238. J Neurosci. 2020 Nov 25;40(48):9236-9249. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.1984-20.2020.
Epub 2020 Oct 23.

Cortico-Subcortical Functional Connectivity Profiles of Resting-State Networks in
Marmosets and Humans.

Hori Y(1), Schaeffer DJ(1), Yoshida A(2), Cléry JC(1), Hayrynen LK(1), Gati
JS(1), Menon RS(1), Everling S(3)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Functional and Metabolic Mapping, Robarts Research Institute,
University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario N6A 5B7, Canada.
(2)Laboratory of Sensorimotor Research, National Eye Institute, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892.
(3)Centre for Functional and Metabolic Mapping, Robarts Research Institute,
University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario N6A 5B7, Canada severlin@uwo.ca.
(4)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, University of Western Ontario,
London, Ontario N6A 5C1, Canada.

Understanding the similarity of cortico-subcortical networks topologies between
humans and nonhuman primate species is critical to study the origin of network
alternations underlying human neurologic and neuropsychiatric diseases. The New
World common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) has become popular as a nonhuman
primate model for human brain function. Most marmoset connectomic research,
however, has exclusively focused on cortical areas, with connectivity to
subcortical networks less extensively explored. Here, we aimed to first isolate
patterns of subcortical connectivity with cortical resting-state networks in
awake marmosets using resting-state fMRI, then to compare these networks with
those in humans using connectivity fingerprinting. In this study, we used 5
marmosets (4 males, 1 female). While we could match several marmoset and human
resting-state networks based on their functional fingerprints, we also found a
few striking differences, for example, strong functional connectivity of the
default mode network with the superior colliculus in marmosets that was much
weaker in humans. Together, these findings demonstrate that many of the core
cortico-subcortical networks in humans are also present in marmosets, but that
small, potentially functionally relevant differences exist.SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT
The common marmoset is becoming increasingly popular as an additional preclinical
nonhuman primate model for human brain function. Here we compared the functional 
organization of cortico-subcortical networks in marmosets and humans using
ultra-high field fMRI. We isolated the patterns of subcortical connectivity with 
cortical resting-state networks (RSNs) in awake marmosets using resting-state
fMRI and then compared these networks with those in humans using connectivity
fingerprinting. While we could match several marmoset and human RSNs based on
their functional fingerprints, we also found several striking differences.
Together, these findings demonstrate that many of the core cortico-subcortical
RSNs in humans are also present in marmosets, but that small, potentially
functionally relevant differences exist.

Copyright © 2020 the authors.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.1984-20.2020 
PMCID: PMC7687060
PMID: 33097633  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

