

2381. Am J Primatol. 2008 Jan;70(1):78-83.

The composition of milk from free-living common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) in
Brazil.

Power ML(1), Verona CE, Ruiz-Miranda C, Oftedal OT.

Author information: 
(1)Nutrition Laboratory, Smithsonian National Zoological Park, Washington, DC
20008, USA. powerm@si.edu

Common marmosets, one of the smallest anthropoid primates, have a relatively high
reproductive rate, capable of producing twins or triplets twice per year. Growth 
and development of infants is relatively rapid, and lactation is relatively short
at less than 3 months. Although mean values for the proximate composition (dry
matter, protein, fat and sugar) of captive common marmoset milks fall within
anthropoid norms, composition is highly variable among individual samples, with
concentrations of milk fat ranging from below 1 to over 10%. To examine the
extent to which this variation might be a consequence of captive conditions, we
collected milk samples from wild common marmosets freely living on a farm in the 
state of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. The proximate composition of the milk samples
was assayed using identical techniques as used for the captive marmoset milks.
The composition of the milk of wild common marmosets was also variable, but
tended to be lower in dry matter, fat, protein and gross energy, and higher in
sugar than milks from captive animals. Interestingly, the percentage of estimated
gross energy from the protein fraction of the milks was relatively constant in
both wild and captive marmosets and did not differ between wild and captive
animals: 1 kcal of common marmoset milk contains on average (+/-SEM) 0.035+/-.001
g of protein regardless of the gross energy content of the milk or whether the
milk was from a wild or captive animal. In contrast, in 1 kcal of low-energy
milks, the amount of sugar was significantly higher and the amount of fat
significantly lower than in 1 kcal of high-energy milks. Thus, common marmoset
milk exhibits axes of variability (especially fat concentration) as well as a
significant stability in the relative amount of protein.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20459 
PMID: 17620291  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

