

2384. Am J Primatol. 2008 Jan;70(1):84-92.

Male parenting and response to infant stimuli in the common marmoset (Callithrix 
jacchus).

Zahed SR(1), Prudom SL, Snowdon CT, Ziegler TE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Zoology and Psychology, University of Wisconsin, Madison,
Wisconsin, USA. skzahed@wisc.edu

Callithrix jacchus infants are raised in complex family environments where most
members participate in rearing the young. Many studies examining male parental
behavior have focused on the carrying of infants with observations made within
the family context. However, interference from family members can make it
difficult to assess the father's motivation to care for infants. Our goals were
to develop a testing paradigm for determining an individual's response to infant 
stimuli separate from family influences, compare a male's motivation to respond
to an infant stimulus outside the family with his paternal behavior within the
family, to compare responses to infant stimuli of parentally experienced versus
inexperienced males and finally to develop a reproducible and standardized method
of testing male responsiveness to infant stimulus that could serve to evaluate
hormonal manipulations. Fifteen experienced common marmoset fathers were
evaluated using three different measures of parental behavior: (1) instantaneous 
scan sampling, (2) continuous focal sampling in the family, and (3) continuous
focal sampling of males presented with four infant stimuli: familiar and
unfamiliar infants, familiar and unfamiliar infant vocalizations. Six parentally 
inexperienced males (non-fathers) served as controls. Males that carried the most
in the family were typically the same males that responded most to the infant
vocalization tests. Experienced fathers did not differ in their latency to enter 
the stimulus cage for any of the four infant stimuli response tests while
inexperienced males took significantly longer to enter the stimulus cage. In
addition, fathers expressed a greater frequency of infant-directed behavior than 
did the inexperienced males during the unfamiliar infant and unfamiliar
vocalization tests. These studies show that experienced male marmosets are highly
motivated to interact with infant stimuli and that there is interindividual
variability in response to infant vocalizations. Testing males outside of the
family allows for a clear assessment of male's interest in infant stimuli in both
parentally experienced fathers and inexperienced males.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20460 
PMID: 17607701  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

