

2407. Pharmacol Biochem Behav. 2007 Apr;86(4):705-11. Epub 2007 Feb 22.

Persistent anxiety-like behavior in marmosets following a recent predatory stress
condition: reversal by diazepam.

Barros M(1), Giorgetti M, Souto AA, Vilela G, Santos K, Boas NV, Tomaz C.

Author information: 
(1)Primate Center and Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, School of Health
Sciences, University of Brasilia, CEP 70910-900 Brasilia, DF, Brazil.
mbarros@unb.br

Initial investigations indicated the use of the Marmoset Predator Confrontation
Test (MPCT) as an experimental procedure to measure fear/anxiety-related
behaviors in non-human primates. However, possible long-term habituation effects 
and re-use of experimental subjects need to be verified. This study, therefore,
compared the behavioral response of experienced versus naïve adult black
tufted-ear marmosets (Callithrix penicillata) in the MPCT, with/without diazepam 
administrations. Subjects were tested in the figure-8 maze and confronted with a 
taxidermized wild-cat predator stimulus. After four initial 20-min maze
habituation sessions, each subject was submitted to two randomly-assigned 20-min 
predator confrontation sessions: vehicle and 2 mg/kg of diazepam. Confrontation
with the predator induced significant behavioral changes; i.e., proximic
avoidance and tsik-tsik alarm call. Diazepam administration, concomitant to
predator exposure, reversed the behavioral changes observed. In both the
experienced and naïve marmosets a similar behavioral profile and response pattern
to diazepam was detected, corroborating the important selective pressure that
felines seem to have on marmoset behavioral ecology. Therefore, during a more
naturalistic-like regimen--i.e., recurring intermittent predator encounters--the 
general response pattern remains highly consistent, regardless of prior
experience. One may consider the re-use of marmoset subjects in the MPCT,
particularly under these specific conditions (i.e. repeated 20-min
confrontations, 72-h apart).

DOI: 10.1016/j.pbb.2007.02.016 
PMID: 17391742  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

