

2433. Horm Behav. 2007 Mar;51(3):436-42. Epub 2007 Jan 3.

Non-invasive measurement of small peptides in the common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus): a radiolabeled clearance study and endogenous excretion under varying
social conditions.

Seltzer LJ(1), Ziegler TE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anthropology, 1180 Observatory Drive 5240 Social Science
Building Madison, WI 53706, USA. lseltzer@wisc.edu

A non-invasive assay for measurement of oxytocin (OT) and vasopressin (AVP) in
primates would enable researchers to study the relationship between the endocrine
system and behavior without disturbing potentially endangered animals in their
natural habitats. In order to test whether or not OT specifically would be
measurable in the urine of a primate, 10 microCi of tritium-labeled OT were
injected into the peripheral blood supply of four adult male common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus), with continuous urinary collection over 48 h. When urine
was processed by HPLC separation and beta counting for radioactive clearance, the
label was present in all samples in the fraction where OT elutes. Large amounts
of OT were also seen in a fraction other than that containing the OT standard,
indicating that OT is measurable but that it also undergoes substantial metabolic
breakdown. In a second experiment, we isolated six common marmosets for 48 h and 
then exposed them to social contact to evaluate the effect of changing social
stimuli on endogenous urinary measurement of both OT and AVP. Both were measured 
after HPLC separation to isolate the intact molecule and also to control for
cross-reactivity with metabolites in subsequent RIA. Cortisol was also measured
to objectively evaluate the stress response. A priori assumptions were that
urinary OT and AVP would be lower during a period of isolation and higher during 
periods of social contact. These assumptions were met, leading us to conclude
that peripheral OT and AVP are measurable via urinary assay and that such an
assay is a valid means of evaluating social condition in this species.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2006.12.012 
PMID: 17292369  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

