

2442. Endocrinology. 2007 Apr;148(4):1813-22. Epub 2007 Jan 11.

Effects of prenatal dexamethasone treatment on postnatal physical, endocrine, and
social development in the common marmoset monkey.

Hauser J(1), Dettling-Artho A, Pilloud S, Maier C, Knapman A, Feldon J, Pryce CR.

Author information: 
(1)Behavioural Neurobiology Laboratory, Swiss Federal Institute of
Technology-Zurich, Schorenstrasse 16, CH-8603 Schwerzenbach, Switzerland.

The prophylactic treatment of diagnosed preterm delivery with synthetic
glucocorticoids, such as dexamethasone (DEX), is commonplace. Long-term effects
of such treatment are not well understood. In the present study, we exposed
pregnant common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus), small-bodied monkeys that are
therefore advantageous for long-term primate studies, to daily repeated DEX (5
mg/kg orally) either during early (d 42-48) or late (d 90-96) pregnancy
(gestation period of 144 d). Relative to control, we investigated DEX effects in 
terms of maternal endocrinology (plasma cortisol and estrogen titers) and
offspring physical growth, plasma and urinary ACTH and cortisol titers, and
social and maintenance behaviors from birth to weaning. Both DEX treatments
resulted in markedly reduced maternal plasma cortisol titers during treatment and
reduced estimated gestation period. Both treatments were without effects on
neonate morphometric measurements and basal hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis
activity. Early DEX treatment resulted in increased infant body weight at
postnatal d 56 and 84, co-occurring at the behavioral level with increased time
spent in eating solid food, a mobile state, solitary play, and exhibiting tail
hair piloerection. The constellation of physical and behavioral effects of early 
DEX suggests interesting parallels with the human metabolic syndrome, providing
primate support that the latter is causally associated with the fetal
environment, including prenatal programming. This novel primate in vivo evidence 
for postnatal effects of prenatal synthetic glucocorticoid exposure indicates the
importance of improved understanding of this acute clinical treatment in terms of
its long-term effects on offspring well-being.

DOI: 10.1210/en.2006-1306 
PMID: 17218413  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

