

2449. J Comp Neurol. 2007 Feb 10;500(5):832-49.

Chemoarchitecture of the middle temporal visual area in the marmoset monkey
(Callithrix jacchus): laminar distribution of calcium-binding proteins
(calbindin, parvalbumin) and nonphosphorylated neurofilament.

Bourne JA(1), Warner CE, Upton DJ, Rosa MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Clayton, Victoria 3800,
Australia. james.bourne@med.monash.edu.au

We studied the distributions of interneurons containing the calcium-binding
proteins parvalbumin and calbindin D-28k, as well as that of pyramidal neurons
containing nonphosphorylated neurofilament (NNF), in the middle temporal visual
area (MT) of marmoset monkeys. The distributions of these classes of cells in MT 
are distinct from those found in adjacent areas. Similar to the primary visual
area (V1), in MT, calbindin-immunopositive neurons can be objectively classified 
into "dark" and "light" subtypes based on optical density of stained cell bodies.
Calbindin-positive dark neurons are particularly concentrated in layers 2 and 3, 
whereas light neurons have a more widespread distribution. In addition, a
subcategory of calbindin-positive dark neuron, characterized by a "halo" of
stained processes surrounding the cell body, is found within and around layer 4
of MT and V1. These cells are rare in most other visual areas. In comparison,
parvalbumin-immunopositive cells in area MT have a relatively homogeneous
distribution, although with a trend toward higher spatial density in lower layer 
3, and are relatively uniform in terms of density of staining. Finally, MT shows 
a characteristic trilaminar distribution of NNF-immunopositive pyramidal cells,
with stained cell bodies evident in layers 3, 5, and 6. Although the laminar
distribution of cells stained for the three markers overlap to some extent, these
subcategories can be readily distinguished in terms of morphology, including cell
body size. Chemoarchitectural parallels observed between MT and V1 suggest
comparable physiological requirements and neuronal circuitry.

2006 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.21190 
PMID: 17177255  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

