

2462. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2006 Aug;1074:365-76.

Neural effects of MDMA as determined by functional magnetic resonance imaging and
magnetic resonance spectroscopy in awake marmoset monkeys.

Meyer JS(1), Brevard ME, Piper BJ, Ali SF, Ferris CF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, 135 Hicks Way, University of Massachusetts, Amherst,
MA 01003, USA. jmeyer@psych.umass.edu

We used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to investigate the acute
effects of a recreational dose (1 mg/kg p.o.) of
3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) on regional brain activity in awake,
restrained marmoset monkeys. In a second study, magnetic resonance spectroscopy
(MRS) and postmortem measurements of serotonin transporter (SERT) binding and
serotonin (5-HT) concentrations were used to determine the neurotoxic effects of 
low (4 x 1 mg/kg p.o.) and high (4 x 10 mg/kg i.m.) doses of MDMA. Several brain 
areas were significantly activated by the low oral dose of MDMA, including the
midbrain raphe nuclei, hippocampus, hypothalamus, amygdala, and the
corticostriatal circuit composed of the dorsal thalamus, sensory motor cortex,
and basal ganglia. MDMA activated the primary visual cortex under baseline
conditions and also enhanced the visual cortical response to photic stimulation. 
The onset of brain activation correlated well with the rise in plasma MDMA
concentrations measured in separate monkeys given the same drug treatment. In the
second study, the ratio of N-acetylaspartate (NAA; a putative neuronal marker) to
creatine was significantly reduced in the hypothalamus following either MDMA
treatment regimen, suggesting a particular vulnerability of this structure to
MDMA-induced damage. Monkeys given the high-dose regimen also showed prolonged
hyperthermia and reductions in 5-HT and SERT in a number of brain areas. These
results are the first to identify the pattern of MDMA-induced brain activation in
a nonhuman primate model, and they further suggest that even recreational doses
of MDMA may have adverse consequences as indicated by the reduced hypothalamic
NAA/creatine ratio.

DOI: 10.1196/annals.1369.036 
PMID: 17105934  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

