

2466. Am J Pathol. 2006 Nov;169(5):1671-85.

Phagocytes containing a disease-promoting Toll-like receptor/Nod ligand are
present in the brain during demyelinating disease in primates.

Visser L(1), Melief MJ, van Riel D, van Meurs M, Sick EA, Inamura S, Bajramovic
JJ, Amor S, Hintzen RQ, Boven LA, 't Hart BA, Laman JD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, Erasmus Medical Center, University Medical Center
Rotterdam, PO Box 2040, 3000 DR Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

Recent studies claim a central role for Toll-like receptor (TLR) ligands in
stimulating autoimmune disease by activation of antigen-presenting cells in the
target organ, but it is unclear if and how TLR ligands reach target organs. Most 
evidence comes from rodent models, and it is uncertain whether this principle
holds in primates. Here we identify which cells contain peptidoglycan (PGN) in
multiple sclerosis brain and in two nonhuman primate experimental autoimmune
encephalomyelitis (EAE) models with different disease courses: acute (rhesus
monkey) versus chronic disease (marmoset). Because persistence of TLR ligands in 
the central nervous system might be consequential for disease progression, we
also determined the expression of two major PGN-degrading enzymes, ie, lysozyme
and N-acetylmuramyl-l-alanine amidase. Distinct phagocyte subsets, including
granulocytes, macrophages, and dendritic cells, contained PGN in the brain and
coexpressed the inflammatory cytokine interleukin-12. The number of phagocytes
carrying PGN increased in acute and chronic EAE compared with control animals,
with the highest number of PGN-containing cells in acute EAE brain. Lytic enzymes
were scarcely expressed in monkey and multiple sclerosis brain, favoring PGN
persistence. PGN stimulated interleukin-12p70 release by leukocytes from all
three primate species. The presence of PGN in the inflamed brain may have major
implications because TLR2/Nod ligation potentially promotes inflammation and
disease progression.

DOI: 10.2353/ajpath.2006.060143 
PMCID: PMC1780210
PMID: 17071591  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

