

2469. Int Immunopharmacol. 2006 Dec 5;6(12):1765-79. Epub 2006 Aug 23.

Multiple vaccine and pyridostigmine bromide interactions in the common marmoset
Callithrix jacchus: immunological and endocrinological effects.

Hornby RJ(1), Pearce PC, Bowditch AP, Scott L, Griffiths GD.

Author information: 
(1)Biomedical Sciences Department, Defence Science and Technology Laboratory,
Porton Down, Salisbury, UK.

Following active service during the 1990/1991 Gulf Conflict, a number of UK and
US veterans presented with a diverse range of symptoms, collectively known as
Gulf Veterans Illnesses (GVI). The administration of vaccines and/or the
pretreatment against possible nerve agent poisoning, pyridostigmine bromide (PB),
given to Armed Forces personnel during the Gulf Conflict has been implicated as a
possible factor in the aetiology of these illnesses. The possibility that adverse
health effects may result from the administration of these vaccines (anthrax,
pertussis, plague, yellow fever, polio, typhoid, tetanus, hepatitis B,
meningococcal meningitis and cholera) and/or PB, have been investigated over an
eighteen month period, in a non-human primate model, the common marmoset. This
study reports immunological indices, including leukocyte phenotypes,
intracellular cytokines IFN-gamma and IL-4 and antibody responses against vaccine
antigens. Using human isotyping reagents previously shown to cross react with
marmoset immunoglobulins (ibid) it was shown that marmosets responded strongly
against anthrax PA and pertussis and weakly against killed whole cell plague,
cholera and typhoid. At the end of the study the immune response to a previously 
unseen T-cell dependent antigen, keyhole limpet haemocyanin (KLH), was examined
in order to determine whether immune function had been compromised by the
compounds administered. Statistically equivalent, robust antibody responses were 
measured against KLH in all treatment groups indicating that the immune system
had not been compromised by any of the treatments. In addition, urinary cortisol 
was measured at key points throughout the study as an index of physiological
stress which may have been induced by the treatments. There were no effects of
treatment on urinary cortisol secretion. With respect to the other immunological 
indices measured, there were no statistical differences between the treatment
groups during the period of the study.

DOI: 10.1016/j.intimp.2006.07.016 
PMID: 17052667  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

