

2471. J Neurophysiol. 2007 Feb;97(2):1005-17. Epub 2006 Oct 18.

Neural representations of temporally modulated signals in the auditory thalamus
of awake primates.

Bartlett EL(1), Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Biomedical Engineering, Traylor 412, Johns Hopkins University, 720
Rutland Avenue, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA. ebartle@purdue.edu

In sensory systems, the thalamus has historically been considered a relay
station. Neural representations of temporal modulations in the auditory system
undergo considerable changes as they pass from the inferior colliculus (IC) to
the auditory cortex. We sought to determine in awake primates the extent to which
auditory thalamic neurons contribute to these transformations. We tested the
temporal processing capabilities of medial geniculate body (MGB) neurons in awake
marmoset monkeys using repetitive click stimuli. MGB neurons were able to
synchronize to periodic clicks at repetition rates significantly higher than
auditory cortex neurons. Unlike responses in the MGB of anesthetized animals,
>40% of MGB neurons in awake marmosets displayed nonsynchronized discharges when 
stimulated by high click rates (short interclick intervals). Such nonsynchronized
MGB responses typically occurred at higher repetition rates than those observed
in auditory cortex. In contrast to auditory cortex neurons, many MGB neurons
exhibited both synchronized and nonsynchronized discharge patterns. In both MGB
and auditory cortex, synchronized and nonsynchronized responses represented
complementary ranges of interclick intervals (1/click rate). Furthermore, the
temporal processing abilities of some MGB neurons were sensitive to the
spectrotemporal parameters of the click stimuli used. Together, these findings
suggest that MGB neurons participate in active transformations of the neural
representations of temporal modulations from IC to auditory cortex. In
particular, the MGB appears to be the first station in the auditory ascending
pathway in which substantial nonsynchronized responses emerge.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00593.2006 
PMID: 17050830  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

