

2474. J Comp Neurol. 2006 Dec 1;499(4):677-89.

Transitory uptake of serotonin in the developing sensory pathways of the common
marmoset.

Lebrand C(1), Gaspar P, Nicolas D, Hornung JP.

Author information: 
(1)DBCM, Université de Lausanne, Lausanne, Switzerland, INSERM U616, Hôpital de
la Salpêtrière, Paris, France.

Serotonin (5-HT) affects brain development during sensitive developmental
periods. In rodents, transient sites of high affinity capture of 5-HT were
demonstrated in the primary sensory neurons and in the sensory thalamocortical
afferents. This uptake is required to adjust 5-HT receptor stimulation during the
formation of sensory maps. To determine whether similar mechanisms exist in
primates, we analyzed staged embryos and postnatal pups in the common marmoset
(total gestation time, 142 days). Immunocytochemical analyses were performed
using antisera to 5-HT, to the serotonin transporter (SERT), and to the vesicular
monoamine transporter (VMAT2). 5-HT, SERT, and VMAT2 labeled the raphe neurons
and their terminal network from embryonic day (E)70 to adulthood. In addition,
from E70-130 VMAT2 and SERT were observed in all the sensory cranial nerves, the 
olfactory nerve, the gustatory, the trigeminal, the auditory fibers, in the
retinal ganglion cells, and the optic tract up to the lateral geniculate nucleus 
and the superior colliculus. All the spinal sensory ganglia and their peripheral 
sensory branches were labeled. Accumulation of 5-HT was observed in all the
sensory neurons expressing SERT and the corresponding axon tracts. Since these
neurons were missing tryptophan hydroxylase (TPH), the synthesizing enzyme for
5-HT, they most likely accumulated 5-HT through the action of the amine
transporters, as has been shown in rodents. No transient expression of 5-HT
markers was detectable in the sensory thalamocortical axons at any of the ages
examined. Thus, the existence of 5-HT uptake in nonserotoninergic neurons appears
to be a conserved feature in primates, although the topographic extent of this
transient expression is more restricted than that previously demonstrated in
rodents.

Copyright (c) 2006 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.21137 
PMID: 17029254  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

