

2480. J Mol Evol. 2006 Nov;63(5):591-601. Epub 2006 Sep 26.

Evolution of growth hormone in primates: the GH gene clusters of the New World
monkeys marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) and white-fronted capuchin (Cebus
albifrons).

Wallis OC(1), Wallis M.

Author information: 
(1)Biochemistry Department, School of Life Sciences, University of Sussex,
Brighton BN1 9QG, UK.

The GH gene cluster in marmoset, Callithrix jacchus, comprises eight GH-like
genes and pseudogenes and appears to have arisen as a consequence of gene
duplications occurring independently of those leading to the human GH gene
cluster. We report here the complete sequence of the marmoset GH gene locus,
including the intergenic regions and 5' and 3' flanking sequence, and a study of 
the multiple GH-like genes of an additional New World monkey (NWM), the
white-fronted capuchin, Cebus albifrons. The marmoset sequence includes 945
nucleotides (nt) of 5' flanking sequence and 1596 nt of 3' flanking sequence that
are "unique"; between these are eight repeat units, including the eight GH
genes/pseudogenes. The breakpoints between these repeats are very similar,
indicating a regular pattern of gene duplication. These breakpoints do not
correspond to those found in the much less regular human GH gene cluster. This
and phylogenetic analysis of the repeat units within the marmoset gene cluster
strongly support the independent origin of these gene clusters, and the idea that
the episode of rapid evolution that occurred during GH evolution in primates
preceded the gene duplications. The marmoset GH gene cluster also differs from
that of human in having fewer and more evenly distributed Alu sequences (a single
pair in each repeat unit) and a "P-element" upstream of every gene/pseudogene. In
human there is no P-element upstream of the gene encoding pituitary GH, and these
elements have been implicated in placental expression of the other genes of the
cluster. The GH gene clusters in marmoset and capuchin appear to have arisen as
the consequence of a single-gene duplication event, but in capuchin there was
then a remarkable expansion of the GH locus, giving at least 40 GH-like genes and
pseudogenes. Thus even among NWMs the GH gene cluster is very variable.

DOI: 10.1007/s00239-006-0039-5 
PMID: 17009125  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

