

2481. Reproduction. 2006 Oct;132(4):589-600.

Administration of vascular endothelial growth factor Trap during the
'post-angiogenic' period of the luteal phase causes rapid functional luteolysis
and selective endothelial cell death in the marmoset.

Fraser HM(1), Wilson H, Wulff C, Rudge JS, Wiegand SJ.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council Human Reproductive Sciences Unit, The Queen's Medical
Research Institute, 47 Little France Crescent, Edinburgh EH16 4TJ, UK.
h.fraser@hrsu.mrc.ac.uk

The intense angiogenesis characteristic of early corpus luteum development is
dependent upon vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) as inhibitors of VEGF
administered at the peri-ovulatory period suppress endothelial cell proliferation
and progesterone secretion. We now report that administration of VEGF Trap, a
soluble decoy receptor-based inhibitor, at the mid- or the late luteal phase in
the marmoset results in a rapid decline in plasma progesterone. Since
vascularisation of the corpus luteum is largely complete by the mid-luteal phase,
it suggested that this functional luteolysis involved mechanisms other than
inhibition of angiogenesis. A second experiment investigated the role of VEGF in 
maintaining the integrity of the luteal vasculature and hormone-producing cells. 
VEGF Trap was administered to marmosets in the mid-luteal phase and ovaries were 
obtained 1, 2, 4 or 8 days later for localisation of activated caspase-3 staining
in the corpus luteum and compared with those obtained 2, 4 and 8 days after
administration of control protein. The number of cells with activated caspase-3
staining was significantly increased after administration of VEGF Trap. Dual
staining of activated caspase-3 with the endothelial cell marker CD31 showed that
at 1 day post-treatment, more than 90% caspase-3-stained cells were vascular
endothelium, prior to detection of an increasing incidence in death of
hormone-producing cells on days 2 and 4. Staining with CD31 showed that the
endothelial cell area was decreased after treatment. By 8 days after treatment,
corpora lutea had regressed to varying degrees, while all control corpora lutea
remained healthy. These results show that VEGF inhibition in the mid- or the late
luteal phase induces functional luteolysis in the marmoset that is associated
with premature and selective death of endothelial cells.

DOI: 10.1530/rep.1.01064 
PMID: 17008470  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

