

2505. BMC Genomics. 2006 Aug 15;7:209.

Identification of the ancestral killer immunoglobulin-like receptor gene in
primates.

Sambrook JG(1), Bashirova A, Andersen H, Piatak M, Vernikos GS, Coggill P, Lifson
JD, Carrington M, Beck S.

Author information: 
(1)Immunogenomics Laboratory, Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Genome Campus,
Hinxton, Cambridge CB10 ISA, UK.

BACKGROUND: Killer Immunoglobulin-like Receptors (KIR) are essential
immuno-surveillance molecules. They are expressed on natural killer and T cells, 
and interact with human leukocyte antigens. KIR genes are highly polymorphic and 
contribute vital variability to our immune system. Numerous KIR genes, belonging 
to five distinct lineages, have been identified in all primates examined thus far
and shown to be rapidly evolving. Since few KIR remain orthologous between
species, with only one of them, KIR2DL4, shown to be common to human, apes and
monkeys, the evolution of the KIR gene family in primates remains unclear.
RESULTS: Using comparative analyses, we have identified the ancestral KIR lineage
(provisionally named KIR3DL0) in primates. We show KIR3DL0 to be highly conserved
with the identification of orthologues in human (Homo sapiens), common chimpanzee
(Pan troglodytes), gorilla (Gorilla gorilla), rhesus monkey (Macaca mulatta) and 
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). We predict KIR3DL0 to encode a functional
molecule in all primates by demonstrating expression in human, chimpanzee and
rhesus monkey. Using the rhesus monkey as a model, we further show the expression
profile to be typical of KIR by quantitative measurement of KIR3DL0 from an
enriched population of natural killer cells.
CONCLUSION: One reason why KIR3DL0 may have escaped discovery for so long is
that, in human, it maps in between two related leukocyte immunoglobulin-like
receptor clusters outside the known KIR gene cluster on Chromosome 19. Based on
genomic, cDNA, expression and phylogenetic data, we report a novel lineage of
immunoglobulin receptors belonging to the KIR family, which is highly conserved
throughout 50 million years of primate evolution.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2164-7-209 
PMCID: PMC1559706
PMID: 16911775  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

