

2532. Brain Pathol. 2006 Apr;16(2):117-23.

Differential macrophage/microglia activation in neocortical EAE lesions in the
marmoset monkey.

Merkler D(1), Böscke R, Schmelting B, Czéh B, Fuchs E, Brück W, Stadelmann C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuropathology, Georg-August University Göttingen, Göttingen,
Germany. merkler@med.uni-goettingen.de

Recent studies revealed an important involvement of the cerebral cortex in
multiple sclerosis (MS) patients. Cortical lesions in MS were reported to be less
inflammatory and to show less structural damage than white matter lesions. Animal
models reflecting the histopathological hallmarks of cortical demyelinated
lesions in MS are sparse. Induction of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis 
(EAE) in the common marmoset has turned out to be an attractive non-human-primate
model for MS. In the present study we investigated the presence and detailed
cellular composition of cortical inflammatory demyelinating pathology in the
common marmoset upon immunization with myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG).
Extensive cortical demyelination reflecting the topographically distinct cortical
lesion types in MS patients was revealed by immunohistochemistry for myelin basic
protein (MBP). We explored the density of T- and B-lymphocytes, MHC-II expressing
macrophages/microglia cells and early activated macrophages (MRP14) at
perivascular and parenchymal lesions sites in neocortex and subcortical white
matter. Despite a similar density of perivascular inflammatory infiltrates in the
demyelinated neocortex, a considerable lower fraction of macrophages was found to
express MRP14 in the neocortex indicating a different activation pattern in
cortical compared with white matter lesions. Furthermore, cortical EAE lesions in
marmoset monkeys revealed immunoglobulin leakage and complement component C9
deposition in intracortical but not subpial demyelination. Our findings indicate 
that the inflammatory response, especially macrophage and microglia activation,
may be regulated differently in gray matter areas in primate brain.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1750-3639.2006.00004.x 
PMCID: PMC8095787
PMID: 16768751  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

