

2535. J Neuroimmunol. 2006 Jul;176(1-2):39-50. Epub 2006 Jun 5.

Differential expression of major histocompatibility complex class I molecules in 
the brain of a New World monkey, the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Rölleke U(1), Flügge G, Plehm S, Schlumbohm C, Armstrong VW, Dressel R,
Uchanska-Ziegler B, Ziegler A, Fuchs E, Czéh B, Walter L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Primate Genetics, German Primate Center, Göttingen, Germany.

It has been supposed that central nervous neurons do not express MHC class I
molecules. However, recent studies clearly demonstrated functional MHC class I
expression in the rodent brain. In the present study, we have extended these
studies and investigated the presence of MHC class I transcripts and proteins in 
the brain of a non-human primate species, the common marmoset monkey (Callithrix 
jacchus). Using in-situ hybridization, we found strong expression of MHC class I 
transcripts in neocortex, hippocampal formation, substantia nigra and nucleus
ruber. In-situ hybridization with emulsion autoradiography demonstrated MHC class
I mRNA in distinct pyramidal neurons of cortex and hippocampus, in granule
neurons of the dentate gyrus, in dopaminergic neurons of substantia nigra and in 
motor neurons of nucleus ruber. Immunocytochemistry confirmed MHC class I protein
expression in these neurons. Two monoclonal antibodies, MRC-Ox18 and HB115,
reacted differentially with MHC class I proteins on neuronal and non-neuronal
cells, respectively. Interestingly, in marmoset monkeys that were
immunosuppressed with FK506 (tacrolimus), expression of neuronal MHC class I
proteins, which could be detected with MRC-Ox18, was either very low (neocortex, 
nucleus ruber, substantia nigra) or absent (hippocampus). In contrast, class I
expression in endothelial cells, which was detected by HB115, was not affected by
immunosuppression. Our data show that selected neurons in the brain of a
non-human primate express MHC class I molecules and that this expression can be
modulated by immunosuppression.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jneuroim.2006.04.015 
PMID: 16750573  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

