

2545. Neuropharmacology. 2006 Aug;51(2):238-50. Epub 2006 May 6.

Enhancing effects of nicotine and impairing effects of scopolamine on distinct
aspects of performance in computerized attention and working memory tasks in
marmoset monkeys.

Spinelli S(1), Ballard T, Feldon J, Higgins GA, Pryce CR.

Author information: 
(1)Behavioural Neurobiology Laboratory, Swiss Federal Institute of Technology
Zurich, Schorenstrasse 16, CH-8603 Schwerzenbach, Switzerland.

With the CAmbridge Neuropsychological Test Automated Battery (CANTAB),
computerized neuropsychological tasks can be presented on a touch-sensitive
computer screen, and this system has been used to assess cognitive processes in
neuropsychiatric patients, healthy volunteers, and species of non-human primate, 
primarily the rhesus macaque and common marmoset. Recently, we reported that the 
common marmoset, a small-bodied primate, can be trained to a high and stable
level of performance on the CANTAB five-choice serial reaction time (5-CSRT) task
of attention, and a novel task of working memory, the concurrent delayed
match-to-position (CDMP) task. Here, in order to increase understanding of the
specific cognitive demands of these tasks and the importance of acetylcholine to 
their performance, the effects of systemic delivery of the muscarinic receptor
antagonist scopolamine and the nicotinic receptor agonist nicotine were studied. 
In the 5-CSRT task, nicotine enhanced performance in terms of increased sustained
attention, whilst scopolamine led to increased omissions despite a high level of 
orientation to the correct stimulus location. In the CDMP task, scopolamine
impaired performance at two stages of the task that differ moderately in terms of
memory retention load but both of which are likely to require working memory,
including interference-coping, abilities. Nicotine tended to enhance performance 
at the long-delay stage specifically but only against a background of relatively 
low baseline performance. These data are consistent with a dissociation of the
roles of muscarinic and nicotinic cholinergic receptors in the regulation of both
sustained attention and working memory in primates.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuropharm.2006.03.012 
PMID: 16678864  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

