

255. J Comp Neurol. 2021 May 1;529(7):1628-1641. doi: 10.1002/cne.25044. Epub 2020 Oct
7.

Marmosets have a greater diversity of c-Fos response after hyperstimulation in
distinct cortical regions as compared to rats.

Magalhães SA(1), Foresti ML(1)(2), Barros VN(1), Mello LE(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Physiology Department, Universidade Federal de São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil.
(2)Instituto D'Or de Pesquisa e Ensino, Botafogo, Brazil.

Previous evidence indicated a potential mechanism that might support the fact
that primates exhibit greater neural integration capacity as a result of the
activation of different structures of the central nervous system, as compared to 
rodents. The current study aimed to provide further evidence to confirm previous 
findings by analyzing the patterns of c-Fos expression in more neocortical
structures of rats and marmosets using a more robust quantitative technique and
evaluating a larger number of brain areas. Nineteen Wistar rats and 21 marmosets 
(Callithrix jacchus) were distributed among control groups (animals without
injections) and animals injected with pentylenetetrazol (PTZ) and euthanized at
different time points after stimulus. Immunohistochemical detection of c-Fos was 
quantified using unbiased and efficient stereological cell counting in eight
neocortical regions. Marmosets had a c-Fos expression that was notably more
widely expressed (5× more cells) and longer lasting (up to 3 hr) than rats. c-Fos
expression in rats presented similar patterns of expression according to the
function of the brain cortical structures (associative, sensorial, and motor
functions), which was not observed for marmosets (in which no clear pattern could
be drawn, and a more diverse profile emerged). Our results provide evidence that 
the marmoset brain has a greater neuronal activation after intense stimulation by
means of PTZ and a more complex pattern of brain activation. We speculate that
these functional differences may contribute for the understanding of the
different neuronal processing capacities of the neocortex in these mammals'
orders.

© 2020 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.25044 
PMID: 32975324  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

