

2552. J Med Virol. 2006 Jun;78(6):770-9.

Clonality analysis by sequence variation of the latent membrane protein 1 gene in
patients with chronic active Epstein-Barr virus infection.

Shibata Y(1), Hoshino Y, Hara S, Yagasaki H, Kojima S, Nishiyama Y, Morishima T, 
Kimura H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Nagoya University Graduate School of Medicine,
Nagoya, Japan.

Chronic active Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) infection is a severe systemic disease
associated with high rates of mortality and morbidity. Recent studies suggest
that the clonal expansion of EBV-infected T or natural killer cells plays a
crucial role in the pathogenesis of chronic active EBV infection. However, it is 
not clear whether chronic active EBV infection is truly a monoclonal disorder
that originates from one cell. The clonality of EBV was investigated by sequence 
variation of the latent membrane protein 1 (LMP1) gene, which has a high degree
of sequence heterogeneity. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells were obtained from 
nine Japanese patients with chronic active EBV infection and four with infectious
mononucleosis. A carboxyl-terminal region of the LMP1 gene was analyzed by
polymerase chain reaction (PCR). The amplified PCR products were subcloned, and
18 clones from each sample were sequenced. Patients with chronic active EBV
infection each had two to five different LMP1 nucleotide sequences, whereas
patients with infectious mononucleosis each had one to seven different sequences.
Patients with chronic active EBV infection and infectious mononucleosis both had 
one dominant sequence. Longitudinal analysis was performed in four patients with 
chronic active EBV infection, in whom the dominant strains were found to have
remained unchanged for several years. The results suggest that EBV in patients
with chronic active EBV infection was polyclonal, although clonal expansion may
occur. Collectively, these findings are critical to clarify further the
pathogenesis of chronic active EBV infection and aid in the development of
effective treatment strategies.

DOI: 10.1002/jmv.20622 
PMID: 16628581  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

