

256. Front Psychiatry. 2020 Aug 19;11:826. doi: 10.3389/fpsyt.2020.00826. eCollection 
2020.

Effects of Ketamine Administration on Auditory Information Processing in the
Neocortex of Nonhuman Primates.

Komatsu M(1)(2), Ichinohe N(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Molecular Analysis of Higher Brain Functions, RIKEN Center for 
Brain Science, Saitama, Japan.
(2)Department of Ultrastructural Research, National Center of Neurology and
Psychiatry, Tokyo, Japan.

Ketamine, an N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist, exerts broad
effects on consciousness and perception. Since NMDA receptor antagonists induce
cognitive impairments, ketamine has been used for translational research on
several psychiatric diseases, such as schizophrenia. Whereas the effects of
ketamine on cognitive functions have been extensively studied, studies on the
effects of ketamine on simple sensory information processing remain limited. In
this study, we investigated the cortex-wide effects of ketamine administration on
auditory information processing in nonhuman primates using whole-cortical
electrocorticography (ECoG). We first recorded ECoG from awake monkeys on
presenting auditory stimuli of different frequencies or different durations. We
observed auditory evoked responses (AERs) across the cortex, including in
frontal, parietal, and temporal areas, while feature-specific responses were
obtained around the temporal sulcus. Next, we examined the effects of ketamine on
cortical auditory information processing. We conducted ECoG recordings from
monkeys that had been administered anesthetic doses of ketamine from 10 to
180 min following administration. We observed significant changes in stimulus
feature-specific responses. Electrodes showing a frequency preference or offset
responses were altered following ketamine administration, while those of the AERs
were not strongly influenced. However, the frequency preference of a selected
electrode was not significantly altered by ketamine administration over time
following administration, while the imbalances in the onset and offset persisted 
over the course of 150 min following ketamine administration in all three
monkeys. These results suggest that ketamine affects the ability to distinguish
between sound frequency and duration in different ways. In conclusion, future
research on the NMDA sensitivity of cortical wide sensory information processing 
may provide a new perspective into the development of nonhuman primate models of 
psychiatric disorders.

Copyright © 2020 Komatsu and Ichinohe.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyt.2020.00826 
PMCID: PMC7466740
PMID: 32973576 

