

2573. J Comp Neurol. 2006 May 1;496(1):72-96.

Thalamic connections of the auditory cortex in marmoset monkeys: core and medial 
belt regions.

de la Mothe LA(1), Blumell S, Kajikawa Y, Hackett TA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tennessee 37203,
USA.

In this study and its companion, the cortical and subcortical connections of the 
medial belt region of the marmoset monkey auditory cortex were compared with the 
core region. The main objective was to document anatomical features that account 
for functional differences observed between areas. Injections of retrograde and
bi-directional anatomical tracers targeted two core areas (A1 and R), and two
medial belt areas (rostromedial [RM] and caudomedial [CM]). Topographically
distinct patterns of connections were revealed among subdivisions of the medial
geniculate complex (MGC) and multisensory thalamic nuclei, including the
suprageniculate (Sg), limitans (Lim), medial pulvinar (PM), and posterior nucleus
(Po). The dominant thalamic projection to the CM was the anterior dorsal division
(MGad) of the MGC, whereas the posterior dorsal division (MGpd) targeted RM. CM
also had substantial input from multisensory nuclei, especially the magnocellular
division (MGm) of the MGC. RM had weak multisensory connections. Corticotectal
projections of both RM and CM targeted the dorsomedial quadrant of the inferior
colliculus, whereas the CM projection also included a pericentral extension
around the ventromedial and lateral portion of the central nucleus. Areas A1 and 
R were characterized by focal topographic connections within the ventral division
(MGv) of the MGC, reflecting the tonotopic organization of both core areas. The
results indicate that parallel subcortical pathways target the core and medial
belt regions and that RM and CM represent functionally distinct areas within the 
medial belt auditory cortex.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.20924 
PMCID: PMC4419740
PMID: 16528728  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

