

2579. Biol Psychiatry. 2006 Oct 15;60(8):843-9. Epub 2006 Feb 24.

Diminished cortisol levels in subordinate female marmosets are associated with
altered central drive to the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis.

Saltzman W(1), Hogan BK, Abbott DH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology and Neuroscience Graduate Program, University of
California, Riverside, California 92521, USA. saltzman@ucr.edu

BACKGROUND: Female marmosets offer a promising primate model of stress-related
hypocortisolism, as they undergo chronic reductions in circulating cortisol after
becoming subordinate in a social group. In this study, we treated dominant and
subordinate female marmosets with the cortisol synthesis inhibitor metyrapone and
corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) to characterize the effects of subordination
on central regulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis.
METHODS: Seven dominant and six subordinate female marmosets received CRF (6
microg/kg, intravenous [IV]), following pretreatment with metyrapone (75 mg/kg,
by mouth [PO]) or water. Plasma adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) and cortisol
concentrations were determined before metyrapone or water treatment and before, 1
hour after, and 2 hours after CRF treatment.
RESULTS: Following metyrapone treatment, subordinates had similar cortisol levels
to dominants but significantly higher ACTH levels. During CRF challenges,
cortisol concentrations were lower and ACTH concentrations higher in
subordinates, although net integrated responses to CRF did not differ.
Cortisol-to-ACTH ratios were consistently lower in subordinates.
CONCLUSIONS: These results confirm previous findings of low cortisol
concentrations and blunted adrenal responsiveness in subordinates and suggest
that when differences in cortisol levels are eliminated, subordinates exhibit
exaggerated hypothalamic drive to the pituitary. These neuroendocrine alterations
in subordinate marmosets resemble those in posttraumatic stress disorder patients
and adult survivors of child abuse.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopsych.2005.12.006 
PMID: 16499881  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

