

2582. Neuroimage. 2006 May 15;31(1):76-85. Epub 2006 Feb 17.

Orientation selectivity in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus): the
periodicity of orientation columns in V1 and V2.

McLoughlin N(1), Schiessl I.

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Life Sciences, University of Manchester, Manchester M60 1QD, UK.
niall.mcloughlin@manchester.ac.uk

Orientation selectivity is a ubiquitous property of the primary visual cortex of 
mammals. Within the primate, orientation selectivity is arranged into vertical
columns that are organized into a regular patchy pattern. Previous studies, in
old world primates, have noted an anisotropy in this arrangement that appears to 
be due to the presence of ocular dominance columns within the same tissue. In
addition, orientation selective responses appear to be arranged into bands of
activity within the adjoining extrastriate region V2. Little is known about the
precise arrangement of orientation columns within V2. In this study, we examined 
the layout of orientation columns within both V1 and V2 of a new world primate,
the common marmoset, using optical imaging. New world primates have the advantage
that, unlike the macaque, V2 exists on the cortical surface, a requirement for
this form of optical mapping. We found the arrangement of orientation columns to 
be isotropic within marmoset V1 with an average repeat distance of around 575
mum, smaller than the repeat distance previously reported for the macaque. We
found no evidence of ocular dominance within the animals tested supporting the
claim that ocular dominance columns when present distort the mapping of
orientation in V1. In V2 we found that orientation columns were larger and as in 
other primates were represented in discrete bands throughout V2. Orientation
columns were spaced on average around 1 mm apart. This suggests that, at least in
the marmoset, the visual system maps orientation at a different scale within V1
and V2.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2005.12.054 
PMID: 16487727  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

