

2592. Primates. 2006 Jul;47(3):187-98. Epub 2006 Jan 24.

A new mark test for mirror self-recognition in non-human primates.

Heschl A(1), Burkart J.

Author information: 
(1)Konrad Lorenz Institute for Evolution and Cognition Research, Adolf Lorenz
Gasse 2, 3422, Altenberg, Austria. adolf.heschl@uni-graz.at

For 30 years Gallup's (Science 167:86-87, 1970) mark test, which consists of
confronting a mirror-experienced test animal with its own previously altered
mirror image, usually a color mark on forehead, eyebrow or ear, has delivered
valuable results about the distribution of visual self-recognition in non-human
primates. Chimpanzees, bonobos, orangutans and, less frequently, gorillas can
learn to correctly understand the reflection of their body in a mirror. However, 
the standard version of the mark test is good only for positively proving the
existence of self-recognition. Conclusive statements about the lack of
self-recognition are more difficult because of the methodological constraints of 
the test. This situation has led to a persistent controversy about the power of
Gallup's original technique. We devised a new variant of the test which permits
more unequivocal decisions about both the presence and absence of
self-recognition. This new procedure was tested with marmoset monkeys (Callithrix
jacchus), following extensive training with mirror-related tasks to facilitate
performance in the standard mark test. The results show that a slightly altered
mark test with a new marking substance (chocolate cream) can help to reliably
discriminate between true negative results, indicating a real lack of ability to 
recognize oneself in a mirror, from false negative results that are due to
methodological particularities of the standard test. Finally, an evolutionary
hypothesis is put forward as to why many primates can use a mirror instrumentally
- i.e. know how to use it for grasping at hidden objects - while failing in the
decisive mark test.

DOI: 10.1007/s10329-005-0170-8 
PMID: 16432640  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

