

26. J Exp Zool A Ecol Integr Physiol. 2022 Jan 5. doi: 10.1002/jez.2574. [Epub ahead 
of print]

Robust locomotor performance of squirrel monkeys (Saimiri boliviensis) in
response to simulated changes in support diameter and compliance.

Schapker NM(1)(2), Chadwell BA(3), Young JW(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy and Neurobiology, Northeast Ohio Medical University
(NEOMED), Rootstown, Ohio, USA.
(2)Cellular and Molecular Biology Program, School of Biomedical Sciences, Kent
State University, Kent, Ohio, USA.
(3)Department of Anatomy, Idaho College of Osteopathic Medicine (ICOM), Meridian,
Idaho, USA.

Arboreal environments require overcoming navigational challenges not typically
encountered in other terrestrial habitats. Supports are unevenly distributed and 
vary in diameter, orientation, and compliance. To better understand the
strategies that arboreal animals use to maintain stability in this environment,
laboratory researchers must endeavor to mimic those conditions. Here, we evaluate
how squirrel monkeys (Saimiri boliviensis) adjust their locomotor mechanics in
response to variation in support diameter and compliance. We used high-speed
cameras to film two juvenile female monkeys as they walked across poles of
varying diameters (5, 2.5, and 1.25 cm). Poles were mounted on either a stiff
wooden base ("stable" condition) or foam blocks ("compliant" condition). Six
force transducers embedded within the pole trackway recorded substrate reaction
forces during locomotion. We predicted that squirrel monkeys would walk more
slowly on narrow and compliant supports and adopt more "compliant" gait
mechanics, increasing stride lengths, duty factors, and an average number of
limbs gripping the support, while the decreasing center of mass height, stride
frequencies, and peak forces. We observed few significant adjustments to squirrel
monkey locomotor kinematics in response to changes in either support diameter or 
compliance, and the changes we did observe were often tempered by interactions
with locomotor speed. These results differ from a similar study of common
marmosets (i.e., Callithrix jacchus, with relatively poor grasping abilities),
where variation in diameter and compliance substantially impacted gait
kinematics. Squirrel monkeys' strong grasping apparatus, long and mobile tails,
and other adaptations for arboreal travel likely facilitate robust locomotor
performance despite substrate precarity.

© 2022 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/jez.2574 
PMID: 34985803 

