

2619. Anat Rec A Discov Mol Cell Evol Biol. 2005 Dec;287(2):1213-25.

Optical imaging of functional organization of V1 and V2 in marmoset visual
cortex.

Roe AW(1), Fritsches K, Pettigrew JD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tennessee 37203,
USA. anna.roe@vanderbilt.edu

Using optical imaging of intrinsic cortical signals, we examined the functional
organization of visual cortical areas V1 and V2 of the marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus). Previous studies have reported that adult marmosets do not have ocular 
dominance columns (ODCs); however, recent studies have called this into question.
Using optical imaging methods, we examined whether ODCs could be detected in
adult marmosets. We found evidence for functional ODCs in some marmosets but not 
in others. The activation patterns, when present, were relatively weak and
appeared as a mosaic of irregular bands or islands. Consistent with studies in
other New World monkeys, these data suggest the presence of ODC variability
within the marmoset population. Orientation maps in V1 revealed iso-orientation
domains organized in semicontinuous bands oriented orthogonal to the V1/V2
border, a pattern unlike that in Macaque monkey. The presence of directional
preference maps in V1 was also suggested. In V2, similar to V2 in Macaque
monkeys, stripe-like regions of orientation selectivity overlay the pale
cytochrome oxidase regions of V2; zones not selective for orientation overlay the
cytochrome thin stripes. However, unlike Macaques, we did not observe clear
evidence for orientation maps overlying thick cytochrome oxidase stripes. In sum,
our data suggest that significant organizational differences exist between the
organization of V1 and V2 in the marmoset and that of Old World primates.
Implications for the establishment of functional ocular dominance columns, the
coestablishment of multiple featural maps, and cortical magnification factors are
discussed.

Copyright (c) 2005 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ar.a.20248 
PMID: 16235264  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

