

2624. Behav Brain Res. 2006 Jan 30;166(2):253-62. Epub 2005 Sep 27.

Neglect of memory after dopaminergic lesions in monkeys.

Ridley RM(1), Cummings RM, Leow-Dyke A, Baker HF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, Downing Street, Cambridge CB2 3EB, UK.

Crossed unilateral dopaminergic lesions of the nigrostriatal bundle and
unilateral inferotemporal cortex ablations (DA x IT lesions) in marmoset monkeys 
produced impaired retention of object discriminations first learnt before, or
after, the DA lesion but no impairment on new learning of the same type of task. 
Retention testing of a pre-operatively learned task was given after new learning 
of a different task so impairment cannot be attributed to improvement with
practice or spontaneous recovery. We argue that the DA lesion produces a form of 
intentional neglect, a defect of volition, which is the mnemonic counterpart of
the volitional neglect of directional hypokinesia, which animals with this lesion
also exhibit. The DA lesion was unilateral (for welfare reasons) so the
information to be retrieved had to be confined to that hemisphere by the use of
an IT ablation in the other hemisphere. Unilateral DA lesion compromises the
competence of ipsilateral fronto-striatal interactions and our results parallel
those found in monkeys with crossed IT x frontal lesions that are impaired on
complex tasks requiring effortful implementation of a cognitive strategy but are 
not impaired on discrimination learning. Parkinsonian patients with sub-total but
bilateral DA loss may lack 'top-down' conative mechanisms as well as 'top-down'
movement initiation mechanisms. They may fail to initiate retrieval strategies,
although they may not exhibit retrograde amnesia under test conditions that
provoke retrieval. Failure to self-initiate retrieval of relevant knowledge may
contribute to the paucity of cognitive style and loss of executive skills
exhibited by some patients with Parkinson's disease.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2005.08.007 
PMID: 16198007  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

