

2625. Birth Defects Res B Dev Reprod Toxicol. 2005 Oct;74(5):450-69.

Review on testicular development, structure, function, and regulation in common
marmoset.

Li LH(1), Donald JM, Golub MS.

Author information: 
(1)Reproductive and Cancer Hazard Assessment Section Branch, Office of
Environmental Health Hazard Assessment, California Environmental Protection
Agency, Sacramento, California 95812, USA. lli@oehha.ca.gov

BACKGROUND: The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is a New World primate that 
has been used increasingly in toxicological evaluations including testing for
testicular toxicity of pharmaceutical and environmental chemicals. Information on
structural and functional characteristics of the testis in common marmosets
("marmoset" in this review) is critical for designing experiments, interpreting
data collected, and determining relevance to humans in risk assessment.
METHODS: This study provides a comprehensive review on testicular development,
structure, function, and regulation in common marmosets.
RESULTS: There is little information regarding testicular formation and
development during gestation. Based on the overall pattern of embryonic
development in marmosets, it is postulated that gonadal formation and testicular 
differentiation most likely takes place during gestational Week 6-12. After
birth, the neonatal period of the first 2-3 weeks and the pubertal period from
Months 6-12 are critical for establishment of spermatogenesis in the adult. In
the adult, a nine-stage model has been used to describe the organization of
seminiferous epithelium and multiple stages per tubular cross-section have been
observed. Seminiferous epithelium is organized in a wave or partial-wave manner. 
There are on average two stages per cross-section of seminiferous tubules in
adult marmoset testis. Sertoli cells in the marmoset have a uniform morphology.
Marmoset spermatogenesis has a high efficiency. The prime determinant of germ
cell production is proliferation and survival of spermatogonia. Sertoli cell
proliferation during the neonatal period is regulated by follicle-stimulating
hormone (FSH), but chorionic gonadotropin (CG), instead of luteinizing hormone
(LH), is the only gonadotropin with luteinizing function in marmoset. The
receptor gene for CG in marmoset is unique in that it does not have exon 10.
Marmosets have a "generalized steroid hormone resistance," i.e., relatively high 
levels of steroid hormones in circulation and relatively low response to
exogenous steroids. Blockage of FSH, CG, and testosterone production during the
first 3 months after birth does not cause permanent damage to the male
reproductive system. Initiation of spermatogenesis in the marmoset requires
unique factors that are probably not present in other mammals. Normal male
marmosets respond to estradiol injection positively (increased LH or CG levels), 
a pattern seen in normal females or castrated males, but not usually in normal
males of other mammalian species.
CONCLUSIONS: It seems that the endocrine system including the testis in marmosets
has some unique features that have not been observed in rodents, Old World
primates, and humans, but detailed comparison in these features among these
species will be presented in another review. Based on the data available,
marmoset seems to be an interesting model for comparative studies. However,
interpretation of experimental findings on the testicular effects in marmosets
should be made with serious caution. Depending on potential mode of testicular
actions of the chemical under investigation, marmoset may have very limited value
in predicting potential testicular or steroid hormone-related endocrine effects
of test chemicals in humans.

Copyright 2005 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/bdrb.20057 
PMID: 16193499  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

