

2628. Eur J Endocrinol. 2005 Oct;153(4):605-12.

GnRH-II receptor-like antigenicity in human placenta and in cancers of the human 
reproductive organs.

Eicke N(1), Günthert AR, Viereck V, Siebold D, Béhé M, Becker T, Emons G,
Gründker C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, Georg-August-University,
Robert-Koch-Street 40, D-37075 Göttingen, Germany.

We have recently demonstrated that the antiproliferative activity of GnRH-II on
human endometrial and ovarian cancer cell lines is not mediated through the
GnRH-I receptor. A functional receptor for human GnRH-II has not yet been
identified. In this study, we have generated a polyclonal antiserum to the
putative human GnRH-II receptor using a peptide (YSPTMLTEVPPC) corresponding to
the third extracellular domain coupled to keyhole limpet haemocyanin via the Cys 
residue. A database search showed no identical peptide sequences in any other
human gene. To avoid cross-reactions against two similar amino acid sequences the
antiserum was pre-absorbed using these peptides. Immune histological sections of 
human placenta and human endometrial, ovarian and prostate cancers using rabbit
anti-human GnRH-II receptor antiserum showed GnRH-II receptor-like staining.
Western blot analysis of cell membrane preparations of human endometrial and
ovarian cancer cell lines yielded a band at approximately 43 kDa whereas Western 
blot analysis of cell membrane preparations of ovaries obtained from the marmoset
monkey (Callithrix jacchus) yielded a band at approximately 54 kDa. To identify
the GnRH-II receptor-like antigen we used the photo-affinity labelling technique.
Photochemical reaction of (125)I-labelled
(4-azidobenzoyl)-N-hydroxysuccinimide-[d-Lys(6)]-GnRH-II (10(-9) M) with cell
membrane preparations of human endometrial and ovarian cancer cells yielded a
band at approximately 43 kDa. In competition experiments, the GnRH-I agonist
Triptorelin (10(-7) M) showed a weak decrease of (125)I-labelled
(4-azidobenzoyl)-N-hydroxysuccinimide-[d-Lys(6)]-GnRH-II binding to its binding
site. The GnRH-I antagonist Cetrorelix (10(-7) M) showed a clearly stronger
decrease, whereas GnRH-II agonist [d-Lys(6)]-GnRH-II (10(-7) M) was the most
potent competitor. Western blot analysis of the same gel using rabbit anti-human 
GnRH-II receptor antiserum identified this band as GnRH-II receptor-like antigen.

DOI: 10.1530/eje.1.02005 
PMID: 16189182  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

