

2651. J Allergy Clin Immunol. 2005 Aug;116(2):453-9.

Antibody responses against galactocerebroside are potential stage-specific
biomarkers in multiple sclerosis.

Menge T(1), Lalive PH, von Büdingen HC, Cree B, Hauser SL, Genain CP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University of California San Francisco, San
Francisco, CA 94143-0114, USA.

BACKGROUND: Galactocerebroside, the major glycolipid of central nervous system
myelin, is a known target for pathogenic demyelinating antibody responses in
experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE), the animal model of multiple
sclerosis (MS).
OBJECTIVE: To address the importance of anti-galactocerebroside (alpha-GalC)
antibodies in MS and to evaluate them as biomarkers of disease.
METHODS: alpha-GalC IgGs were quantified from sera of patients with MS and in
marmoset EAE by a new immunosorbent assay.
RESULTS: We report a significant difference in serum alpha-GalC IgG titers
between patients with relapsing-remitting (RR)-MS and healthy controls (HCs; P < 
.001). The frequencies of alpha-GalC antibody-positive subjects (alpha-GalC
titers > or = mean HC titers+3 SD) are also significantly elevated in RR-MS
compared with HC (40% vs 0%; P = .0033). Immunoaffinity purified alpha-GalC IgGs 
from human serum bind to cultured human oligodendrocytes, indicating that the
ELISA detects a biologically relevant epitope. Corroborating these findings,
alpha-GalC antibody responses in marmoset EAE were similarly found to be
specifically associated with the RR forms and not the peracute or progressive
forms, in contrast with other anti-myelin antibodies (P = .0256).
CONCLUSION: (1) alpha-GalC antibodies appear MS-specific and are not found in
healthy subjects, unlike antibodies against myelin proteins; (2) when present,
alpha-GalC antibodies identify mostly RR-MS and may be an indicator of ongoing
disease activity. This novel assay is a suitable and valuable method to increase 
accuracy of diagnosis and disease staging in MS.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jaci.2005.03.023 
PMID: 16083805  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

