

2665. J Mol Evol. 2005 May;60(5):606-14.

Molecular evolution of prolactin in primates.

Wallis OC(1), Mac-Kwashie AO, Makri G, Wallis M.

Author information: 
(1)Biochemistry Department, School of Life Sciences, University of Sussex,
Brighton, UK. C.Wallis@sussex.ac.uk

Pituitary prolactin, like growth hormone (GH) and several other protein hormones,
shows an episodic pattern of molecular evolution in which sustained bursts of
rapid change contrast with long periods of slow evolution. A period of rapid
change occurred in the evolution of prolactin in primates, leading to marked
sequence differences between human prolactin and that of nonprimate mammals. We
have defined this burst more precisely by sequencing the coding regions of
prolactin genes for a prosimian, the slow loris (Nycticebus pygmaeus), and a New 
World monkey, the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). Slow loris prolactin is very
similar in sequence to pig prolactin, so the episode of rapid change occurred
during primate evolution, after the separation of lines leading to prosimians and
higher primates. Marmoset prolactin is similar in sequence to human prolactin, so
the accelerated evolution occurred before divergence of New World monkeys and Old
World monkeys/apes. The burst of change was confined largely to coding sequence
(nonsynonymous sites) for mature prolactin and is not marked in other components 
of the gene sequence. This and the observations that (1) there was no apparent
loss of function during the episode of rapid evolution, (2) the rate of evolution
slowed toward the basal rate after this burst, and (3) the distribution of
substitutions in the prolactin molecule is very uneven support the idea that this
episode of rapid change was due to positive adaptive selection. In the slow loris
and marmoset there is no evidence for duplication of the prolactin gene, and
evidence from another New World monkey (Cebus albifrons) and from the chimpanzee 
and human genome sequences, suggests that this is the general position in
primates, contrasting with the situation for GH genes. The chimpanzee prolactin
sequence differs from that of human at two residues and comparison of human and
chimpanzee prolactin gene sequences suggests that noncoding regions associated
with regulating expression may be evolving differently from other noncoding
regions.

DOI: 10.1007/s00239-004-0239-9 
PMID: 15983870  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

