

2689. Mech Ageing Dev. 2005 Jun-Jul;126(6-7):760-6. Epub 2005 Mar 5.

Proteasomal activity in brain differs between species and brain regions and
changes with age.

Zeng BY(1), Medhurst AD, Jackson M, Rose S, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Research Centre, GKT School of Biomedical Sciences, 
King's College, London, UK.

Age-related increase in protein oxidation in brain coupled to an impairment of
proteasomal activity may underline neuronal loss but differences in
susceptibility between species and brain regions remain unexplained. We now
investigate differences in proteasomal activity, measured as chymotrypsin-,
trypsin- and peptidylglutamyl-like hydrolysing activities between brain regions
in rats, mice and common marmosets. In aged rats and mice, proteasomal activity
was decreased in the cortex, striatum, cerebellum, globus pallidus and substantia
nigra overall when compared to young animals. However, in the aged brain only
chymotrypsin-like activity was decreased in the cortex and the globus pallidus
while only trypsin-like activity was reduced in the cerebellum. In contrast, in
the striatum, both chymotrypsin-like and trypsin-like activities were reduced and
in the substantia nigra, all the three catalytic activities of proteasome were
significantly impaired. Chymotrypsin-like and trypsin-like activities were
significantly higher in all the brain regions of marmosets compared to those of
mice and rats. Peptidylglutamyl-like activity was only significantly higher in
the cerebellum and striatum of marmoset compared to rodents. The data suggest
that there is higher proteasome activity in common marmoset brain compared to rat
and mouse and that the basal ganglia are more prone to an age-related decrease in
proteasomal activity. This may explain the involvement of altered
ubiquitin-proteasome system activity in Parkinson's disease and the relationship 
to ageing.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mad.2005.01.008 
PMID: 15888331  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

