

2697. Eur J Neurosci. 2005 Mar;21(6):1733-40.

Autonomic arousal in an appetitive context in primates: a behavioural and neural 
analysis.

Braesicke K(1), Parkinson JA, Reekie Y, Man MS, Hopewell L, Pears A, Crofts H,
Schnell CR, Roberts AC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, University of Cambridge, Downing Street, Cambridge, CB2
3DY, UK.

Central to many emotional responses is the accompanying peripheral somatic and
autonomic arousal, feedback from which has been hypothesized to enhance emotional
memory and to contribute to appraisal processes and decision making, and
dysfunction of which may contribute to antisocial behaviour. Whilst peripheral
arousal may accompany both positive and negative emotional contexts, its
relationship with the former is poorly understood, as are the neural mechanisms
underlying such a relationship. The purpose of the present study was to determine
the autonomic correlates of anticipation, as well as consumption, of high
incentive food, in the freely moving common marmoset and to investigate the
contribution of the amygdala to such effects. Blood pressure (BP) and heart rate 
(HR) were measured remotely by a telemetric device implanted into the descending 
aorta and behavioural responses were monitored whilst marmosets viewed preferred 
or non-preferred foods and were then allowed access to eat those foods. A marked 
rise in blood pressure in unrestrained marmosets was observed in response both to
the sight of highly preferred foods (anticipatory period) as well as during the
actual consumption of those foods (consummatory period). Excitotoxic lesions of
the amygdala abolished the autonomic arousal in the anticipatory period, but
spared both the behavioural arousal in the anticipatory period and the autonomic 
arousal in the consummatory period. Together these data serve as an important
step towards understanding the role of autonomic arousal in emotion and its
neural underpinnings.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2005.03987.x 
PMID: 15845101  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

