

270. Neuroscience. 2020 Oct 15;446:145-156. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2020.08.031.
Epub 2020 Aug 29.

Axonal Projections from Middle Temporal Area to the Pulvinar in the Common
Marmoset.

Arafune-Mishima A(1), Abe H(2), Tani T(2), Mashiko H(2), Watanabe S(3), Sakai
K(3), Suzuki W(3), Mizukami H(4), Watakabe A(2), Yamamori T(2), Ichinohe N(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ultrastructural Research, National Institute of Neuroscience,
National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, Tokyo, Japan; Department of NCNP
Brain Physiology and Pathology, Graduate School of Medical and Dental Sciences,
Tokyo Medical and Dental University, Japan.
(2)Laboratory for Molecular Analysis of Higher Brain Function, Center for Brain
Science, RIKEN, Saitama, Japan.
(3)Department of Ultrastructural Research, National Institute of Neuroscience,
National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, Tokyo, Japan.
(4)Division of Genetic Therapeutics, Center for Molecular Medicine, Jichi Medical
University, Tochigi, Japan.
(5)Department of Ultrastructural Research, National Institute of Neuroscience,
National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, Tokyo, Japan; Ichinohe Group,
Laboratory for Molecular Analysis of Higher Brain Function, Center for Brain
Science, RIKEN, Saitama, Japan. Electronic address: nichinohe@brain.riken.jp.

The pulvinar, the largest thalamic nucleus in the primate brain, has connections 
with a variety of cortical areas and is involved in many aspects of higher brain 
functions. Among cortico-pulvino-cortical systems, the connection between the
middle temporal area (MT) and the pulvinar has been thought to contribute
significantly to complex motion recognition. Recently, the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus), has become a valuable model for a variety of neuroscience
studies, including visual neuroscience and translational research of neurological
and psychiatric disorders. However, information on projections from MT to the
pulvinar in the marmoset brain is scant. We addressed this deficiency by
injecting sensitive anterograde viral tracers into MT to examine the distribution
of labeled terminations in the pulvinar. The injection sites were placed
retinotopically according to visual field coordinates mapped by optical intrinsic
imaging. All injections produced anterograde terminal labeling, which was densest
in the medial nucleus of the inferior pulvinar (PIm), sparser in the central
nucleus of the inferior pulvinar, and weakest in the lateral pulvinar. Within
each subnucleus, terminations formed separate retinotopic fields. Most labeled
terminals were small but these comingled with a few large terminals, distributed 
mainly in the dorsomedial part of the PIm. Our results further delineate the
organization of projections from MT to the pulvinar in the marmoset as forming
parallel complex networks, which may differentially contribute to motion
processing. It is interesting that the densest projections from MT target the
PIm, the subnucleus recently reported to preferentially receive direct retinal
projections.

Copyright © 2020 IBRO. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2020.08.031 
PMID: 32866602  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

