

2704. Toxicol Pathol. 2005;33(1):63-74.

Spontaneous and drug-induced hepatic pathology of the laboratory beagle dog, the 
cynomolgus macaque and the marmoset.

Foster JR(1).

Author information: 
(1)AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals, Cheshire, SK10 4TG, England.
john.foster@astrazeneca.com

This review focuses on the background hepatic pathology present in three of the
most commonly used species in the safety assessment of drugs, namely the beagle
dog, the marmoset and the cynomolgus macaque. Both the nonneoplastic and
neoplastic pathology are reviewed with a discussion on the potential impact that 
significant background pathology might have on the interpretation of any
drug-induced pathology during subsequent testing. Although specific instances,
such as parasitological infection in wild-caught primates can pose problems of
interpretation, in general the background pathology in both the dog and the
nonhuman primates, is not significantly different from that seen in the liver of 
laboratory rodents and with experience should not pose significant problems for
the experienced pathologist. The relative merits of the primate versus the dog as
a choice of second species are also considered in some detail. Although there is 
an inbuilt prejudice that the primate will more closely mimic subsequent effects 
that might occur in man in the clinic, insofar as the liver is concerned, there
are many instances where the dog has been more representative of human exposure
and metabolism and there is little evidence to show that the nonhuman primate is 
consistently better than dog in predicting human liver toxicity. As with most
areas of science, comparative toxicology would dictate that the more information 
gained, from as wide a range of species as is practical, will give the best
assessment for any subsequent problems in the clinic. This pragmatic approach
should prove to be more successful than one based entirely upon an assumption,
and in many cases the assumption is incorrect, that the primate always predicts
human toxicity better than the nonprimate, including the dog.

DOI: 10.1080/01926230590890196 
PMID: 15805057  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

