

2707. Eur J Neurosci. 2005 Feb;21(4):841-54.

A modified MPTP treatment regime produces reproducible partial nigrostriatal
lesions in common marmosets.

Iravani MM(1), Syed E, Jackson MJ, Johnston LC, Smith LA, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Research Centre, GKT School of Biomedical Sciences, 
King's College, London SE1 1UL, UK.

Standard MPTP treatment regimens in primates result in > 85% destruction of
nigral dopaminergic neurons and the onset of marked motor deficits that respond
to known symptomatic treatments for Parkinson's disease (PD). The extent of
nigral degeneration reflects the late stages of PD rather than events occurring
at its onset. We report on a modified MPTP treatment regimen that causes nigral
dopaminergic degeneration in common marmosets equivalent to that occurring at the
time of initiation of motor symptoms in man. Subcutaneous administration of MPTP 
1 mg/kg for 3 consecutive days caused a reproducible 60% loss of nigral tyrosine 
hydroxylase (TH)-positive cells, which occurred mainly in the
calbindin-D(28k)-poor nigrosomes with a similar loss of TH-immunoreactivity
(TH-ir) in the caudate nucleus and the putamen. The animals showed obvious motor 
abnormalities with reduced bursts of activity and the onset of motor disability. 
However, the loss of striatal terminals did not reflect early PD because a
greater loss of TH-ir occurred in the caudate nucleus than in the putamen and a
marked reduction in TH-ir occurred in striatal patches compared to the matrix.
Examination of striatal fibres following a partial MPTP lesion showed a
conspicuous increase in the number and the diameter of large branching fibres in 
the putaminal and to some extent caudatal matrix, pointing to a possible
compensatory sprouting of dopaminergic terminals. In addition, these partially
lesioned animals did not respond to acute treatment with L-DOPA. This primate
partial lesions model may be useful for examining potential neuroprotective or
neurorestorative agents for PD.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2005.03915.x 
PMID: 15787691  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

