

2709. J Neurosci Res. 2005 Apr 15;80(2):172-81.

Establishment of graded spinal cord injury model in a nonhuman primate: the
common marmoset.

Iwanami A(1), Yamane J, Katoh H, Nakamura M, Momoshima S, Ishii H, Tanioka Y,
Tamaoki N, Nomura T, Toyama Y, Okano H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, Shinjuku, Tokyo,
Japan.

Most previous studies on spinal cord injury (SCI) have used rodent models. Direct
extrapolation of the results obtained in rodents to clinical cases is difficult, 
however, because of neurofunctional and anatomic differences between rodents and 
primates. In the present study, the development of histopathologic changes and
functional deficits were assessed quantitatively after mild, moderate, and severe
spinal cord contusive injuries in common marmosets. Contusive SCI was induced by 
dropping one of three different weights (15, 17, or 20 g) at the C5 level from a 
height of 50 mm. Serial magnetic resonance images showed significant differences 
in the intramedullary T1 low signal and T2 high signal areas among the three
groups. Quantitative histologic analyses revealed that the number of motor
neurons, the myelinated areas, and the amounts of corticospinal tract fibers
decreased significantly as the injury increased in severity. Motor functions were
evaluated using the following tests: original behavioral scoring scale,
measurements of spontaneous motor activity, bar grip test, and cage-climbing
test. Significant differences in all test results were observed among the three
groups. Spontaneous motor activities at 10 weeks after injury were closely
correlated with the residual myelinated area at the lesion epicenter. The
establishment of a reliable nonhuman primate model for SCI with objective
functional evaluation methods should become an essential tool for future SCI
treatment studies. Quantitative behavioral and histopathologic analyses enabled
three distinct grades of injury severity (15-g, 17-g, and 20-g groups) to be
characterized with heavier weights producing more serious injuries, and
relatively constant behavioral and histopathologic outcomes.

2005 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jnr.20435 
PMID: 15772980  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

