

2727. J Neurosci. 2005 Jan 26;25(4):769-77.

Continuous low-level glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor delivery using
recombinant adeno-associated viral vectors provides neuroprotection and induces
behavioral recovery in a primate model of Parkinson's disease.

Eslamboli A(1), Georgievska B, Ridley RM, Baker HF, Muzyczka N, Burger C, Mandel 
RJ, Annett L, Kirik D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 
3EB, United Kingdom. ae228@cam.ac.uk

The therapeutic potential of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF)
for Parkinson's disease is likely to depend on sustained delivery of the
appropriate amount to the target areas. Recombinant adeno-associated viral
vectors (rAAVs) expressing GDNF may be a suitable delivery system for this
purpose. The aim of this study was to define a sustained level of GDNF that does 
not affect the function of the normal dopamine (DA) neurons but does provide
anatomical and behavioral protection against an intrastriatal 6-hydroxydopamine
(6-OHDA) lesion in the common marmoset. We found that unilateral intrastriatal
injection of rAAV resulting in the expression of high levels of GDNF (14 ng/mg of
tissue) in the striatum induced a substantial bilateral increase in tyrosine
hydroxylase protein levels and activity as well as in DA turnover. Expression of 
low levels of GDNF (0.04 ng/mg of tissue), on the other hand, produced only
minimal effects on DA synthesis and only on the injected side. In addition, the
low level of GDNF provided approximately 85% protection of the nigral DA neurons 
and their projections to the striatum in the 6-OHDA-lesioned hemisphere.
Furthermore, the anatomical protection was accompanied by a complete attenuation 
of sensorimotor neglect, head position bias, and amphetamine-induced rotation. We
conclude that when delivered continuously, a low level of GDNF in the striatum
(approximately threefold above baseline) is sufficient to provide optimal
functional outcome.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.4421-04.2005 
PMCID: PMC6725622
PMID: 15673656  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

