

2731. Horm Behav. 2005 Feb;47(2):151-63. Epub 2004 Dec 15.

Diminished maternal responsiveness during pregnancy in multiparous female common 
marmosets.

Saltzman W(1), Abbott DH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of California, Riverside, CA 92521, USA.
saltzman@ucr.edu

Common marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) live in small groups in which,
usually, only a single female breeds and all group members provide infant care.
When two females breed concurrently, however, they may commonly kill one
another's infants, especially during the peripartum period. To investigate the
mechanisms underlying infanticide by breeding females, we characterized responses
of multiparous females to infants and determined circulating hormone levels in
adult females during early pregnancy, late pregnancy, and the early postpartum
period. Additionally, we compared the responses of postpartum females to their
own infants and infants of other females (unfamiliar infants). Postpartum females
were highly maternal toward both their own and unfamiliar infants, and showed no 
differences in their behavioral or hormonal responses to the two. During both
early and late pregnancy, however, these females exhibited longer latencies to
initially approach unfamiliar infants and spent less time carrying unfamiliar
infants. Moreover, females spent less time carrying unfamiliar infants during
late pregnancy than early pregnancy. Most late pregnant females never carried
infants, and those that did rejected them quickly. Prolactin concentrations were 
higher and progesterone concentrations lower postpartum than in early or late
pregnancy, while estradiol concentrations, the estradiol-to-progesterone ratio,
and cortisol levels were higher during late pregnancy. Within reproductive
conditions, however, maternal behaviors were not correlated with hormone levels. 
These results suggest that maternal responsiveness in marmosets may be attenuated
during pregnancy, especially late pregnancy, and this may contribute to
infanticide by breeding females.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2004.10.001 
PMID: 15664018  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

