

2733. Pharmacol Biochem Behav. 2005 Jan;80(1):9-26. Epub 2004 Dec 15.

Recovery from experimental Parkinson's disease in the
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine hydrochloride treated marmoset with 
the melatonin analogue ML-23.

Willis GL(1), Robertson AD.

Author information: 
(1)The Bronowski Institute of Behavioural Neuroscience, Coliban Medical Centre,
19 Jennings Street, Kyneton, Victoria 3444, Australia. gwillbro@nex.net.au

A new mechanism has been recently proposed, whereby melatonin may participate in 
the ongoing process of neuronal degeneration in models of neurodegenerative
disorders, such as Parkinson's disease (PD). Antagonism of the melatonin receptor
in rats using constant light or pinealectomy induced recovery and reduced the
mortality typically associated with dopamine (DA) degeneration. In additional
studies, employing ML-23 in the 6-OHDA-treated rat, remission from experimental
PD was achieved using this drug in a post 6-OHDA treatment regime. To permit the 
further assessment of ML-23 as a potential clinical candidate for the treatment
of PD, the present study was undertaken to determine the efficacy of ML-23 in the
1-methyl-4-phenyl, 1,2,3,6 tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) model in the common
marmoset. ML-23 was administered orally in a dose of 3 mg/kg twice daily to half 
of the animals, while the other half received vehicle only, in a blinded
protocol, for 56 days. The effects of the treatment on positive and negative
features of MPTP-induced PD were assessed, including horizontal and vertical
movement, head checking, general behaviour and Parkinsonian condition, raisin
board performance, the ability to remove a foot label, palatable and dry food
intake, water consumption, bradykinaesia, and the positive symptoms of tremor,
obstinate progression, and agitation. On all parameters, ML-23 produced a
significant remission from MPTP-induced Parkinsonism, and this effect did not
abate when ML-23 treatment was withdrawn. In a further pilot study involving a
crossover of two animals, one animal treated previously with MPTP plus vehicle
showed some remission of negative and positive features, although ML-23 treatment
was not commenced until 8 weeks post-MPTP. Conversely, a recurrence of
Parkinsonian signs was not observed when ML-23 treatment was withdrawn and
substituted with oral vehicle. Dopamine transporter was severely impaired in all 
marmosets treated with ML-23 or vehicle for the duration of the study. These
results suggest that a novel mechanism involving melatonin is involved in the
primary aetiology of the chronic aspects of PD, and such a mechanism is not
related to the antioxidative function of this hormone. From these preliminary
results, it is concluded that ML-23 and other melatonin analogues have an
important role to play in the treatment and clinical management of Parkinson's
disease.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pbb.2004.10.022 
PMID: 15652376  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

