

2734. J Neurosci. 2005 Jan 12;25(2):532-8.

Prefrontal serotonin depletion affects reversal learning but not attentional set 
shifting.

Clarke HF(1), Walker SC, Crofts HS, Dalley JW, Robbins TW, Roberts AC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 
3EB, United Kingdom.

Recently, we have shown that serotonin (5-HT) depletion from the prefrontal
cortex (PFC) of the marmoset monkey impairs performance on a serial
discrimination reversal (SDR) task, resulting in perseverative responding to the 
previously correct stimulus (Clarke et al., 2004). This pattern of impairment is 
just one example of inflexible responding seen after damage to the PFC, with
performance on the SDR task being dependent on the integrity of the orbitofrontal
cortex. However, the contribution of 5-HT to other forms of flexible responding, 
such as attentional set shifting, an ability dependent on lateral PFC (Dias et
al., 1996a), is unknown. The present study addresses this issue by examining the 
effects of 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine-induced PFC 5-HT depletions on the ability to 
shift attention between two perceptual dimensions of a compound visual stimulus
(extradimensional shift). Monkeys with selective PFC 5-HT lesions, despite being 
impaired in their ability to reverse a stimulus-reward association, were
unimpaired in their ability to make an extradimensional shift when compared with 
sham-operated controls. These findings suggest that 5-HT is critical for flexible
responding at the level of changing stimulus-reward contingencies but is not
essential for the higher-order shifting of attentional set. Thus, psychological
functions dependent on different loci within the PFC are differentially sensitive
to serotonergic modulation, a finding of relevance to our understanding of
cognitive inflexibility apparent in disorders such as obsessive-compulsive
disorder and schizophrenia.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.3690-04.2005 
PMCID: PMC6725478
PMID: 15647499  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

