

2741. Physiol Behav. 2004 Dec 15;83(3):437-45.

Intensity of aggressive interactions modulates testosterone in male marmosets.

Ross CN(1), French JA, Patera KJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Nebraska at Omaha, Omaha, NE,
USA. cross@bigred.unl.edu

Androgen is associated with the expression of male-typical behavior, including
aggressive behavior, but high levels of androgen may be incompatible with other
behavioral systems, such as paternal care. In a variety of species of birds that 
display paternal care, testosterone (T) levels in males are maintained at low
levels, and these levels rise only in response to direct agonistic challenges.
This idea has not been thoroughly studied in mammals with biparental care, and we
exposed male marmosets (Callithrix kuhlii), a monogamous and biparental primate
to aggressive interactions with unfamiliar intruders. Urinary levels of T and
cortisol (CORT) were monitored prior to and following these interactions.
Baseline T was not correlated with variation in aggression in either residents or
intruders, and CORT was not affected by the encounters. However, males responded 
to an encounter with male intruders with changes in T that correlated with the
level of aggression displayed by the resident male during the trial. Encounters
with male intruders that elicited high frequencies of aggressive displays by the 
male resident were associated with increased T 2-6 h and 24 h following the
encounter, and encounters that had few aggressive displays resulted in no change 
or a decrease in T concentrations. Intruders did not demonstrate a significant
relationship between T and aggression. Thus, the magnitude of the hormonal
response is dependent on the intensity of aggression during a male-male
encounter, suggesting that elevated androgens are likely to be a consequence,
rather than a cause, of aggressive interactions in marmosets.

DOI: 10.1016/j.physbeh.2004.08.036 
PMID: 15581666  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

