

2742. Horm Behav. 2005 Jan;47(1):56-64.

Neuroendocrine response to female ovulatory odors depends upon social condition
in male common marmosets, Callithrix jacchus.

Ziegler TE(1), Schultz-Darken NJ, Scott JJ, Snowdon CT, Ferris CF.

Author information: 
(1)National Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI
53715, USA. ziegler@primate.wisc.edu

Male mammals show rapid behavioral and hormonal responses to signals from
sexually receptive females. However, rapid endocrine responses to female signals 
have not been observed in a nonhuman primate. Here, we tested the behavioral and 
hormonal response of male common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) to isolated scent
secretions from ovulatory females or to vehicle control scent. Fifteen males were
tested in their home cage for behavioral and hormonal responses. These males
showed increased investigative and arousal behaviors to the ovulatory scent
compared to the vehicle scent. Time sniffing the scent substrate and the duration
of erections were significantly elevated in relation to the vehicle scent. Thirty
minutes after presentation of ovulatory scent, males showed a significant
increase in testosterone compared to the vehicle, but there was no difference in 
cortisol values. To better control for scent presentation, 15 additional males
were tested under a controlled scent exposure. Current social housing condition
influenced the male's testosterone response to the ovulatory scent. Single and
paired males showed significant increases in testosterone levels with the
ovulatory scent but did not increase cortisol levels. Single males also showed
the highest change in testosterone with the ovulatory scent, but fathers showed
no changes. These results indicate that a rapid hormonal response to sexually
arousing cues occurs in marmosets, and the data suggest that a male's social
condition influences how he responds to sexually relevant cues.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2004.08.009 
PMID: 15579266  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

