

2749. J Neurophysiol. 2005 Apr;93(4):2062-72. Epub 2004 Nov 17.

Acetylcholine dynamically controls spatial integration in marmoset primary visual
cortex.

Roberts MJ(1), Zinke W, Guo K, Robertson R, McDonald JS, Thiele A.

Author information: 
(1)Psychology Brain and Behavior, University of Newcastle Upon Tyne, Newcastle
Upon Tyne NE2 4HH, UK.

Recent in vitro studies have shown that acetylcholine (ACh) selectively reduces
the efficacy of lateral cortical connections via a muscarinic mechanism, while
boosting the efficacy of thalamocortical/feed-forward connections via a nicotinic
mechanism. This suggests that high levels of ACh should reduce center-surround
interactions of neurons in primary visual cortex, making cells more reliant on
feed-forward information. In line with this hypothesis, we show that local
iontophoretic application of ACh in primate primary visual cortex reduced the
extent of spatial integration, assessed by recording a neurons' length tuning.
When ACh was externally applied, neurons' preferred length shifted toward shorter
bars, showing reduced impact of the extra-classical receptive field. We fitted a 
difference and a ratio of Gaussian model to these data to determine the
underlying mechanisms of this dynamic change of spatial integration. These models
assume overlapping summation and suppression areas with different widths and
gains to be responsible for spatial integration and size tuning. ACh
significantly reduced the extent of the summation area, but had no significant
effect on the extent of the suppression area. In line with previous studies, we
also show that applying ACh enhanced the response in the majority of cells,
especially in the later (sustained) part of the response. These findings are
similar to effects of attention on neuronal activity. The natural release of ACh 
is strongly linked with states of arousal and attention. Our results may
therefore be relevant to the neurobiological mechanism of attention.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00911.2004 
PMCID: PMC1891447
PMID: 15548624  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

