

2770. Am J Phys Anthropol. 2005 Jan;126(1):97-110.

Fetal and infant head circumference sexual dimorphism in primates.

Joffe TH(1), Tarantal AF, Rice K, Leland M, Oerke AK, Rodeck C, Geary M,
Hindmarsh P, Wells JC, Aiello LC.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Child Health, MRC Childhood Nutrition Research Center, University
College London, London WC1N 1EH, UK. tracey.joffe@tufts.edu
<tracey.joffe@tufts.edu>

Studies have shown that after controlling for the effects of body size on brain
size, the brains of adult humans, rhesus monkeys, and chimpanzees differ in
relative size, where males have a greater volume of cerebral tissue than females.
We assess whether head circumference sexual dimorphism is present during early
development by evaluating sex differences in relative head circumference in
living fetuses and infants within the first year of life. Head circumference is
used as a proxy for brain size in the fetus and infant. Femur length is used as a
proxy for body length in the fetus. Ultrasonography was used to obtain fetal
measures, and anthropometry was used to obtain postnatal measures in humans,
rhesus monkeys, baboons, and common marmosets. We show that statistically
significant but low levels of head circumference sexual dimorphism are present in
humans, rhesus monkeys, and baboons in early life. On average, males have head
circumferences about 2% larger than females of comparable femur/body length in
humans, rhesus monkeys, and baboons. No evidence for head circumference sexual
dimorphism in the common marmoset was found. Dimorphism was present across all
body size ranges. We suggest that head circumference sexual dimorphism emerges
largely postnatally and increases throughout maturation, particularly in humans
who reach adult dimorphism values greater than the monkeys. We suggest that brain
dimorphism is not likely to impose an additional energetic burden to the
gestating or lactating mother. Finally, some of the problems with ascribing
functional significance to brain size sexual dimorphism are discussed, and the
energetic implications for brain size sexual dimorphism in infancy are assessed.

(c) 2004 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.20035 
PMID: 15472898  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

