

2771. Anat Rec A Discov Mol Cell Evol Biol. 2004 Nov;281(1):1190-200.

Expression of neuron-specific markers by the vomeronasal neuroepithelium in six
species of primates.

Dennis JC(1), Smith TD, Bhatnagar KP, Bonar CJ, Burrows AM, Morrison EE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, Physiology, and Pharmacology, College of Veterinary
Medicine, Auburn University, Auburn, Alabama 36849, USA.
dennijc@vetmed.auburn.edu

Vomeronasal organ (VNO) morphology varies markedly across primate taxa. Old World
monkeys display no postnatal VNO. Humans and at least some apes retain a
vestigial VNO during postnatal life, whereas the strepsirrhines and New World
Monkeys present a morphologically well-defined VNO that, in many species, is
presumed to function as an olfactory organ. Available microanatomical and
behavioral studies suggest that VNO function in these species does not precisely 
duplicate that described in other mammalian taxa. The questions of which species 
retain a functional VNO and what functions they serve require inquiry along
diverse lines but, to be functional, the vomeronasal epithelium must be neuronal 
and olfactory. We used immunohistochemistry to establish these criteria in six
primate species. We compared the expression of two neuronal markers,
neuron-specific beta-tubulin (BT) and protein gene product 9.5, and olfactory
marker protein (OMP), a marker of mature olfactory sensory neurons, in
paraffin-embedded VNO sections from two strepsirrhine and four haplorhine
species, all of which retain morphologically well-defined VNOs during postnatal
life. The infant Eulemur mongoz, adult Otolemur crassicaudatus, neonatal
Leontopithicus rosalia, and adult Callithrix jacchus express all three proteins
in their well-defined vomeronasal neuroepithelia. The infant Tarsius syrichta
showed some BT and OMP immunoreactivity. We establish that two strepsirrhine
species and at least some New World haplorhines have mature sensory neurons in
the VNO. In contrast, at all ages examined, Saguinus geoffroyi VNO expresses
these markers in only a few cells.

(c) 2004 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ar.a.20124 
PMID: 15470676  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

