

2776. Am J Phys Anthropol. 2004 Dec;125(4):343-51.

New technique for studying reaction forces during primate behaviors on vertical
substrates.

Vinyard CJ(1), Schmitt D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Anthropology and Anatomy, Duke University Medical
Center, Durham, North Carolina 27710, USA. cvinyard@neoucom.edu

Recording reaction forces from primates during behaviors on vertical substrates, 
such as leaping, climbing, or biting trees, typically requires the design and
construction of customized recording devices or mounting commercially available
force platforms in a vertical position. The technical difficulties imposed by
either option have hindered in vivo research on the kinetics of primate behaviors
on vertical substrates. We describe a simple, inexpensive apparatus for recording
forces from primate behaviors on vertical substrates. The apparatus includes an
instrumented beam fastened directly to a horizontal force platform and a
surrounding vertical substrate that does not contact the instrumented beam or
platform. The contact piece at the end of the instrumented beam is positioned
flush with the noninstrumented vertical substrate, and reaction forces elicited
on this instrumented section are directed to the force platform. Because most of 
the vertical substrate is not instrumented, we can isolate and record forces from
a single limb or jaw during a behavior. Biewener and Full ([1992] Biomechanics
Structures and Positions: A Practical Approach; New York: Oxford University
press, p. 45-73) gave seven criteria to consider when designing a customized
force-recording device. Where appropriate, we tested if our apparatus met their
criteria. The apparatus accurately records forces in three orthogonal directions,
has low cross-talk, maintains a high frequency response, exhibits a linear
response up to at least 200 Newtons, and displays a uniform response to a given
force across the instrumented contact piece. Our design does not easily
facilitate the identification of the point of force application. Therefore, joint
moments cannot be easily calculated. This limitation, however, does not affect
the apparatus's ability to accurately record the magnitude and direction of a
force (as shown by other tests). We developed this apparatus to measure jaw
forces during tree gouging in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus), but the
general design can be readily modified to study a variety of primate behaviors on
vertical substrates.

2004 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.10395 
PMID: 15386253  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

