

2779. Am J Primatol. 2004 Sep;64(1):107-21.

Reproductive output, maternal age, and survivorship in captive common marmoset
females (Callithrix jacchus).

Smucny DA(1), Abbott DH, Mansfield KG, Schultz-Darken NJ, Yamamoto ME, Alencar
AI, Tardif SD.

Author information: 
(1)Southwest National Primate Research Center, San Antonio, Texas 78245-0549,
USA.

Common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) demonstrate significant variation in
reproductive output on both a yearly and lifetime basis in comparison to other
anthropoid primates. We explore the factors that may be most important in
determining reproductive variation in captive common marmosets. Studies have
found that maternal age, maternal condition, and dam survivorship are related to 
reproductive output; however, these reports are not in agreement and are far from
conclusive. With the use of a large, multicolony, demographic database pooling
data across five marmoset colonies, we examined litter information for 1,649
litters, and reproductive summaries for 400 dams to assess 1) how reproductive
output variation (total production, total weaned production) is determined by
litter size, interbirth interval (IBI), age at first birth, and dam survival age;
2) the relationship between maternal age and reproductive output variables; and
3) relationship between the reproductive output variables and survival. We used
stepwise regression procedures to describe the amount of variation in lifetime
reproductive output among dams, and found that mean litter size accounted for 18%
of the variance in total production, survival age accounted for 10.6%, age at
first birth accounted for 8.8%, and mean IBI accounted for 5%. For total
(nonzero) weaned production, survival age accounted for 7.6% of variance, age at 
first birth accounted for 7.2%, mean IBI accounted for 2%, and mean litter size
accounted for 1.6%. We identified significant effects (P<0.05) of maternal age on
litter size and IBI length, but no effect of dam age on weaned litter size. Cox
proportional hazards regression analyses revealed significant effects (P<0.01) of
number of litters, age at first birth, and site on dam survivorship. Dams that
produced more litters showed higher survivorship. Age at first birth showed a
positive relationship with dam survivorship, i.e., dams that delayed first
reproduction had higher survival. Our findings about reproductive variation in
marmosets may have practical applications for the management of marmoset breeding
colonies.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20065 
PMID: 15356862  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

