

2780. Am J Primatol. 2004 Sep;64(1):83-93.

Quantitative data on training new world primates to urinate.

Smith TE(1), McCallister JM, Gordon SJ, Whittikar M.

Author information: 
(1)Biology Department, University College Chester, Chester CB1 4BJ, UK.
tessa.smith@chester.ac.uk

This study assessed the effectiveness of operant conditioning in training three
species of captive callitrichid primates (Leontopithecus rosalia, Callithrix
geoffroyi, and Saguinus imperator) to urinate on demand. There were three goals
to the study: 1) to develop a system for quantitatively assessing positive
reinforcement training; 2) to ascertain whether or not positive reinforcement
techniques can be used to train callitrichid monkeys to urinate on demand, and if
so, how many training sessions are required; and 3) to determine the effect on
urination behavior of the trainer entering the cage to collect a urine sample.
Positive reinforcement with a continuous reinforcement schedule was used to
capture a natural behavior: urination. Training sessions (30 min each) were
conducted at dawn thrice weekly during five consecutive phases: habituation,
control, training (animals were rewarded for urinating), maintenance (animals had
reached a defined training criteria and continued to be rewarded for urinating), 
and collection (animals were rewarded for urinating, and the trainer entered the 
cage to collect the sample). The numbers of 30-min training sessions required to 
train the three monkey species (L. rosalia, C. geoffroyi, and S. imperator) were 
five, six, and eight, respectively. For the three species, the mean number of
urinations per animal was significantly greater during the training, maintenance,
and collection phases compared to the control phase. However, the three species
differed significantly in the manner in which the rates of urination changed
across the five phases. A higher proportion of subjects urinated during the
training, maintenance, and collection phases compared to the control phase.
Latency to first urination varied significantly across the five phases, with
significantly reduced latencies to urinate during the training, maintenance, and 
collection phases compared to the control phase. The entry of the trainer into
the cage to collect the urine sample did not appear to alter urination behavior. 
We demonstrate that operant conditioning techniques, which typically incur
minimal cost, time investment, and disturbance, can be used to increase the
quantity of urine samples collected for physiological analysis, the proportion of
animals that urinate, and the speed of sample collection.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20063 
PMID: 15356860  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

