

2781. Am J Primatol. 2004 Sep;64(1):29-37.

Influence of the mother's reproductive state on the hormonal status of daughters 
in marmosets (Callithrix kuhlii).

Puffer AM(1), Fite JE, French JA, Rukstalis M, Hopkins EC, Patera KJ.

Author information: 
(1)Callitrichid Research Center, Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska
at Omaha, Omaha, Nebraska 68182-0274, USA.

Behavioral and endocrine suppression of reproduction in subordinate females
produces the high reproductive skew that characterizes callitrichid primate
mating systems. Snowdon et al. [American Journal of Primatology 31:11-21, 1993]
reported that the eldest daughters in tamarin families exhibit further
endocrinological suppression immediately following the birth of siblings, and
suggested that dominant females exert greater control over subordinate
endocrinology during this energetically challenging phase of reproduction. We
monitored the endocrine status of five Wied's black tufted-ear marmoset daughters
before and after their mother delivered infants by measuring concentrations of
urinary estradiol (E(2)), pregnanediol glucuronide (PdG), testosterone (T), and
cortisol (CORT). Samples were collected from marmoset daughters 4 weeks prior to 
and 9 weeks following three consecutive sibling-litter births when the daughters 
were prepubertal (M=6.1 months of age), peripubertal (M=11.9 months), and
postpubertal (M=17.6 months). The birth of infants was associated with reduced
ovarian steroid excretion only in the prepubertal daughters. In contrast, ovarian
steroid levels tended to increase in the postpubertal daughters. Urinary E(2) and
T levels in the postpubertal daughters were 73.8% and 37.6% higher, respectively,
in the 3 weeks following the birth of infants, relative to prepartum levels. In
addition, peak urinary PdG concentrations in peri- and postpubertal daughters
were equivalent to luteal phase concentrations in nonpregnant, breeding adult
females, and all of the peri- and postpubertal daughters showed clear ovulatory
cycles. Cortisol excretion did not change in response to the reproductive status 
of the mother, nor did the concentrations change across age. Our data suggest
that marmoset daughters of potential breeding age are not hormonally suppressed
during the mother's peripartum period or her return to fertility. These findings 
provide an additional example of species diversity in the social regulation of
reproduction in callitrichid primates.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20059 
PMCID: PMC2980352
PMID: 15356856  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

