

2782. Biol Reprod. 2005 Feb;72(2):293-300. Epub 2004 Sep 8.

Clonal organization of proliferating spermatogonial stem cells in adult males of 
two species of non-human primates, Macaca mulatta and Callithrix jacchus.

Ehmcke J(1), Luetjens CM, Schlatt S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology and Physiology, Center for Research in Reproductive
Physiology, University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
15261, USA.

The present study examines the existence of clonogenic patterns in the
proliferation and differentiation of spermatogonial stem cells in two species of 
non-human primates, the marmoset and the rhesus monkey. We developed a novel
approach to detect proliferating spermatogonial clones in whole mounts of
seminiferous tubules. Dual fluorescence labeling of bromodeoxyuridine and acrosin
in conjunction with confocal microscopy allows the description of the clonogenic 
and spatial arrangement of proliferating spermatogonia at specific stages of the 
seminiferous epithelial cycle. Cross-sections of paraffin-embedded tissue were
labeled by the same approach. For both monkey species we demonstrate the presence
of proliferating spermatogonial clones of variable size at specific stages of the
cycle of the seminiferous epithelium. Detailed analysis of the rhesus monkey
reveals proliferating Apale spermatogonia at stages VII and IX of the cycle of
the seminiferous epithelium, and of proliferating B spermatogonia at stages II,
IV, VI, and XII. Proliferating Apale spermatogonia at stages VII and IX of the
cycle are organized in pairs or quadruplets. B1 spermatogonia appear as
quadruplets or eight-cell clones, and B2 spermatogonia as 8- or 16-cell clones.
We conclude that spermatogenesis in the rhesus monkey is initiated by two
divisions of duplets or quadruplets of Apale spermatogonia: a first division at
stage VII, after which the clones of Apale spermatogonia separate, and a second
division at stage IX, which leads to clones of B1 spermatogonia as well as pairs 
and quadruplets of Apale spermatogonia replenishing the seminiferous epithelium
to maintain the original size of the A spermatogonial population.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod.104.033092 
PMID: 15355878  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

