

2790. Biol Reprod. 2004 Dec;71(6):2087-91. Epub 2004 Aug 18.

Cografting of hamster (Phodopus sungorus) and marmoset (Callithrix jacchus)
testicular tissues into nude mice does not overcome blockade of early
spermatogenic differentiation in primate grafts.

Wistuba J(1), Mundry M, Luetjens CM, Schlatt S.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Reproductive Medicine, University Münster, 48129 Münster,
Germany.

The ectopic xenotransplantation of testicular tissues into nude mice is a tool to
generate sperm from immature testes. Immunodeficient mice as recipients of
xenografts offered an appropriate microenvironment for differentiation of
testicular tissue from hamsters, goats, pigs, and macaques. One exception is the 
neotropical primate Callithrix jacchus. Spermatogenesis in testicular grafts from
marmosets does not proceed beyond the spermatogonial stage. The most likely cause
for the poor graft development of marmosets is a deletion of exon 10 in the
luteinizing hormone-receptor (LHR) gene, which renders this species insensitive
to LH but responsive to chorionic gonadotropin (CG). We investigated whether
cografting of testicular tissue from Djungarian hamsters would overcome the
blockade in marmoset graft development. We also tested if exogenous
administration of human CG (hCG) to the recipient would stimulate development of 
the marmoset tissue. No difference in graft survival was noted between hamster
and monkey tissue. Seminiferous lumina were present in marmoset and hamster
grafts but were significantly larger in hamster grafts. In the hamster grafts, a 
high proportion of the tubules contained meiotic and postmeiotic germ cells. In
contrast, the marmoset tubules were populated with gonocytes and premeiotic
spermatogonia. These results indicate that neither normal serum androgen levels
nor the high local testosterone levels were sufficient to initiate marmoset
spermatogenesis, nor was administration of hCG successful in overcoming the
developmental blockade in marmoset tissue. Our results indicate that the
conditions needed for initiation of spermatogenesis in the marmoset are
remarkably different from those present in most other mammals.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod.104.033431 
PMID: 15317690  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

