

2804. Biol Psychiatry. 2004 Jul 15;56(2):72-9.

Deprivation of parenting disrupts development of homeostatic and reward systems
in marmoset monkey offspring.

Pryce CR(1), Dettling AC, Spengler M, Schnell CR, Feldon J.

Author information: 
(1)Behavioural Neurobiology Laboratory, Swiss Federal Institute of Technology
Zurich, Schwerzenbach, Switzerland.

BACKGROUND: Early environment is a major determinant of long-term mental health, 
evidenced by the relationship between early-life neglect or abuse and chronically
increased vulnerability to developmental psychopathology, including major
depressive disorder (MDD). Animal studies can increase understanding of
environmentally mediated causal risk processes. We describe how daily deprivation
of biological parenting in primate infants disrupts development of homeostatic
and reward systems central to MDD.
METHODS: Nine breeding pairs of marmoset monkeys provided control twins (CON) and
early-deprived twins (ED); the latter were socially isolated for 30-120 min/day
on days 2-28. During the first year of life, basal urinary norepinephrine (NE)
titers and cardiophysiologic activity were measured. At the end of year 1
(adolescence), automated neuropsychologic tests were conducted to measure
responsiveness to changes in stimulus-reward association (simple/reversed visual 
discrimination learning) and to reward per se (progressive ratio [PR]
reinforcement schedule).
RESULTS: The ED monkeys exhibited increased basal urinary NE titers and increased
systolic blood pressure relative to CON siblings. The ED monkeys required more
sessions to reinstate stimulus-oriented behavior following reversal, suggesting
increased vulnerability to perceived loss of environmental control; ED monkeys
also performed less PR operant responses, indicating that reward was less of an
incentive and that they were mildly anhedonic relative to CON.
CONCLUSIONS: In marmoset monkeys, neglect-like manipulation of ED leads to
chronic changes in homeostatic systems, similar to those in children and
adolescents exposed to early-life adversity and in MDD, and to responses to
environmental stimuli similar to those that characterize MDD.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopsych.2004.05.002 
PMID: 15231438  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

