

2815. Neuropsychologia. 2004;42(9):1178-91.

Topographical memory impairments after unilateral lesions of the anterior
thalamus and contralateral inferotemporal cortex.

Ridley RM(1), Baker HF, Mills DA, Green ME, Cummings RM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, Downing Street, Cambridge CB2 3EB, UK.

Monkeys with crossed unilateral excitotoxic lesions of the anterior thalamus and 
unilateral inferotemporal cortex ablation were severely impaired at learning two 
tasks which required the integration of information about the appearance of
objects and their positions in space. The lesioned monkeys were also impaired at 
learning a spatial task and a task which required the integration of information 
about the appearance of objects and the background on which the objects were
situated. Monkeys with only one of the unilateral lesions were not impaired and
previous work has shown that monkeys with bilateral lesions of the anterior
thalamus were not impaired on these tasks. These results indicate that the whole 
of the inferotemporal cortex-anterior thalamic circuit, which passes via the
hippocampus, fornix, mamillary bodies and mamillothalamic tract, is essential for
the topographical analysis of information about specific objects in different
positions in space. Together with previous work, the results show that a
unilateral lesion may affect cognition in the presence of other brain damage when
an equivalent bilateral lesion alone does not. The tasks required the slow
acquisition of information into long term memory and therefore assessed semantic 
knowledge although other research has shown impairment on topographical
processing within working or episodic memory following lesions of the
hippocampal-diencephalic circuit. It is argued that the hippocampal-diencephalic 
circuit does not have a role in a specific form of memory such as episodic memory
but rather is involved in topographical analysis of the environment in perception
and across all types of declarative memory.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuropsychologia.2004.02.005 
PMID: 15178170  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

