

2831. J Neurophysiol. 2004 Aug;92(2):1067-76. Epub 2004 Apr 7.

Sense of taste in a New World monkey, the common marmoset. II. Link between
behavior and nerve activity.

Danilova V(1), Hellekant G.

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Animal Health and Biomedical Sciences, University of
Wisconsin-Madison, 1655 Linden Drive, Madison, WI 53706, USA.

In a previous study, we characterized the gustatory system of a New World monkey 
the common marmoset, Callithrix jacchus jacchus, with electrophysiological
techniques by recording from taste fibers of the chorda tympani proper (CT) and
glossopharyngeal (NG) nerves. Hierarchical cluster analysis identified three
clusters of taste fibers: S fibers, responding predominantly to sweeteners, Q
fibers, responding predominantly to bitter stimuli, and H fibers, responding
predominantly to acids. In this study, we employed two behavioral techniques, the
two-bottle preference (TBP) and conditioned taste aversion (CTA), to study the
taste of the compounds used in the previous electrophysiological study. The
results showed that compounds that did not stimulate any taste fibers were
neither preferred nor rejected. Compounds that activated only S fibers were
always preferred over water. When aversion to sucrose was created by the CTA
method, these compounds were rejected. Compounds that activated Q fibers were
rejected and consumed less than water. We studied the relationship between intake
and net response from S and Q fibers in the CT and NG nerves. Intake was measured
as a preference ratio in TBP test. The net response was defined as: (S(CT) +
S(NG)) - (Q(CT) + Q(NG)), where S(CT) + S(NG) denotes the sum of the responses in
S fibers of the CT and NG nerves. Similarly, Q(CT) + Q(NG) represents the sum of 
the responses in Q fibers of the CT and NG nerves. The relationship between
intake and the Net response was linear with a Pearson correlation coefficient
0.85. This study supports our hypothesis that intake is influenced by S and Q
fibers, where S fibers serve as a hedonically positive input and Q fibers as a
hedonically negative input.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.01183.2003 
PMID: 15071088  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

