

2832. Anim Cogn. 2004 Apr;7(2):77-85. Epub 2003 Sep 16.

Testing for social learning and imitation in common marmosets, Callithrix
jacchus, using an artificial fruit.

Caldwell CA(1), Whiten A.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Social Learning and Cognitive Evolution and Scottish Primate
Research Group, University of St Andrews, KY16 9JU, St Andrews, Fife, Scotland.
C.A.Caldwell@exeter.ac.uk

We tested for social learning and imitation in common marmosets using an
artificial foraging task and trained conspecific demonstrators. We trained a
demonstrator marmoset to open an artificial fruit, providing a full demonstration
of the task to be learned. Another marmoset provided a partial demonstration,
controlling for stimulus enhancement effects, by eating food from the outside of 
the apparatus. We thus compared three observer groups, each consisting of four
animals: those that received the full demonstration, those that received the
partial demonstration, and a control group that saw no demonstration prior to
testing. Although none of the observer marmosets succeeded in opening the
artificial fruit during the test periods, there were clear effects of
demonstration type. Those that saw the full demonstration manipulated the
apparatus more overall, whereas those from the control group manipulated it the
least of the three groups. Those from the full-demonstration group also contacted
the particular parts of the artificial fruit that they had seen touched
(localised stimulus enhancement) to a greater extent than the other two groups.
There was also an interaction between the number of hand and mouth touches made
to the artificial fruit for the full- and partial-demonstration groups. Whether
or not these data represent evidence for imitation is discussed. We also propose 
that the clear differences between the groups suggest that social learning
mechanisms provide real benefits to these animals in terms of developing novel
food-processing skills analogous to the one presented here.

DOI: 10.1007/s10071-003-0192-9 
PMID: 15069606  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

