

2851. J Mol Endocrinol. 2004 Feb;32(1):115-28.

Chorionic gonadotrophin beta subunit mRNA but not luteinising hormone beta
subunit mRNA is expressed in the pituitary of the common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus).

Müller T(1), Simoni M, Pekel E, Luetjens CM, Chandolia R, Amato F, Norman RJ,
Gromoll J.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Reproductive Medicine of the University, Domagkstrasse 11,
D-48129 Münster, Germany.

The pituitary gonadotrophins LH and FSH are responsible for regulation of
gametogenesis in the testis and ovary. Chorionic gonadotrophin (CG), a third
closely related glycoprotein hormone derived by gene duplication of the LHbeta
gene and secreted by the placenta in primates, is essential for the rescue of the
corpus luteum and maintenance of pregnancy. We have recently shown that marmoset 
(m) CGbeta mRNA is highly expressed in the pituitary of the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus) and that LH is less active than human CG in activating the
human LH receptor lacking exon 10. To investigate further which gonadotrophin is 
the actual ligand of the LH receptor (LHR) of the marmoset monkey that naturally 
lacks exon 10, we identified and characterised the genomic organisation of the
mLHbeta gene and its expression. Intergenic PCR amplification of the region
encompassing the mLHbeta and the mCGbeta genes revealed that, surprisingly,
mCGbeta is located 20 kbp upstream of the LHbeta gene, whereas in other species
the intergenic distance is approximately 2-3 kbp. Sequence analysis of the
mLHbeta coding region showed 70% identity to mCGbeta and 90% identity to human
LHbeta at the amino acid level. Both gonadotrophin beta subunits are present at
the genomic level, but RT-PCR of pituitary and placental total RNA using specific
oligonucleotides for mCGbeta and mLHbeta showed high expression of mCGbeta mRNA
in both tissues, whereas LHbeta was expressed neither in the pituitary nor in the
placenta. Thus mLHbeta mRNA is lacking in the marmoset pituitary.
Immunohistochemistry of marmoset pituitaries showed that mCG was confined to the 
gonadotrophes, and partly co-localised in cells stained positively for FSH.
Western blot analysis confirmed the presence of mCG in the pituitary. Northern
blot analysis using mCGbeta as a probe displayed one transcript of 0.7 kb in the 
pituitary and detected two transcripts of 1.1 kb and 2 kb in the marmoset
placenta. Our results suggest that, in the common marmoset, CG is the only
gonadotrophin with luteinising function that is present in the pituitary. We
postulate that, owing to an unknown mutational event in evolution, expression of 
mLH was completely abolished, and CG - which, unlike LH, acts normally even when 
exon 10 is missing from the LHR - took over its function.

DOI: 10.1677/jme.0.0320115 
PMID: 14765996  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

