

2858. J Magn Reson Imaging. 2004 Feb;19(2):168-75.

Activation of neural pathways associated with sexual arousal in non-human
primates.

Ferris CF(1), Snowdon CT, King JA, Sullivan JM Jr, Ziegler TE, Olson DP,
Schultz-Darken NJ, Tannenbaum PL, Ludwig R, Wu Z, Einspanier A, Vaughan JT, Duong
TQ.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Comparative Neuroimaging, University of Massachusetts Medical
School, Worcester, Massachusetts 01655, USA. craig.ferris@umassmed.edu

PURPOSE: To evaluate brain activity associated with sexual arousal, fully
conscious male marmoset monkeys were imaged during presentation of odors that
naturally elicit high levels of sexual activity and sexual motivation.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Male monkeys were lightly anesthetized, secured in a head
and body restrainer with a built-in birdcage resonator and positioned in a
9.4-Tesla spectrometer. When fully conscious, monkeys were presented with the
odors of a novel receptive female or an ovariectomized monkey. Both odors were
presented during an imaging trial and the presentation of odors was
counterbalanced. Significant changes in both positive and negative BOLD signal
were mapped and averaged.
RESULTS: Periovulatory odors significantly increased positive BOLD signal in
several cortical areas: the striatum, hippocampus, septum, periaqueductal gray,
and cerebellum, in comparison with odors from ovariectomized monkeys. Conversely,
negative BOLD signal was significantly increased in the temporal cortex,
cingulate cortex, putamen, hippocampus, substantia nigra, medial preoptic area,
and cerebellum with presentation of odors from ovariectomized marmosets as
compared to periovulatory odors. A common neural circuit comprising the temporal 
and cingulate cortices, putamen, hippocampus, medial preoptic area, and
cerebellum shared both the positive BOLD response to periovulatory odors and the 
negative BOLD response to odors of ovariectomized females.
CONCLUSION: These data suggest the odor-driven enhancement and suppression of
sexual arousal affect neuronal activity in many of the same general brain areas. 
These areas included not only those associated with sexual activity, but also
areas involved in emotional processing and reward.

Copyright 2004 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jmri.10456 
PMCID: PMC1525212
PMID: 14745749  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

