

2863. J Vet Med Sci. 2003 Dec;65(12):1307-11.

Distribution of protein gene product 9.5-immunopositive and
NADPH-diaphorase-positive neurons in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus)
accessory olfactory bulb.

Nakajima T(1), Tanioka Y, Taniguchi K.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Biomedical Control, Research Institute for Electronic Science,
Hokkaido University, Sapporo, Japan.

The principal center of the accessory olfactory system is the accessory olfactory
bulb (AOB). In primates, simians are divided into two groups, New and Old World
monkeys, and the AOB is present in only New World monkeys. The common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus) is a species of New World monkey. Although the morphology of
the common marmoset AOB has been demonstrated, the distribution patterns of the
mitral/tufted and granule cells of the AOB remain unclear. In the present study, 
therefore, the distribution of the mitral/tufted and granule cells in the common 
marmoset AOB was examined using two histochemical markers including
immuno-staining for protein gene product (PGP) 9.5 and NADPH-diaphorase staining.
The vomeronasal nerves, gomeruli and mitral/tufted cells showed PGP
9.5-immunoreactivity. The mitral/tufted cells were arranged in only one or two
rows along the margin of the glomerular layer to form the mitral/tufted cell
layer (MTL). Since the mitral/tufted cells occurred sparsely in the common
marmoset, the MTL was illegible. NADPH-diaphorase reactivity was primarily
detected in the rostral and caudal areas of the AOB. In these areas, granule
cells showed NADPH-diaphorase reactivity. Since the granule cells were sparse,
the common marmoset AOB displayed less-developed granule cell layer. Although the
functional significance of the AOB remains to be solved in the common marmoset,
small-sized and less-laminated AOB may show that sexual behavior of the common
marmoset has lesser dependence on the accessory olfactory system.

DOI: 10.1292/jvms.65.1307 
PMID: 14709818  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

