

2872. Clin Exp Pharmacol Physiol. 2003 Nov;30(11):841-4.

Experimental therapeutics of Parkinson's disease.

Henderson JM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Prince of Wales Medical Research Institute, Randwick, NSW, Australia.
jasmine@med.usyd.edu.au

1. The loss of central dopamine, which characterises Parkinson's disease, led to 
the main pharmacological strategy for treatment, namely levodopa, a
dopamine-replacement therapy. Several years after treatment, the majority of
patients experience dose-limiting side-effects and loss of symptom control. There
is a resurgence of interest in neurosurgery for treating the Parkinson's disease,
particularly in new techniques targeting the subthalamic nucleus (STN), which is 
overactive in Parkinson's disease and contributes to symptom development. 2. We
performed unilateral subthalamotomy (lesioning the subthalamic nucleus via the
toxin N-methyl-d-aspartate) in marmosets and rats with experimentally induced
parkinsonism (induced using the toxin 6-hydroxydopamine). A range of similar
behaviours common to both rodents and primates were evaluated before and after
each type of surgery. Post-mortem histology was used to confirm the lesions. We
also provide details of a case with Parkinson's disease who underwent
high-frequency bilateral stimulation of the STN and in whom we analysed the STN
post-mortem. 3. Unilateral subthalamotomy improved akinesia in parkinsonian
primates. However, both monkeys and rodents showed postural abnormalities. The
patient who underwent bilateral high-frequency stimulation showed improvement of 
akinesia and other disease symptoms and no postural abnormalities. Post-mortem
analysis did not demonstrate substantial damage of the STN as a result of the
electrodes. 4. Although unilateral subthalamotomy improves some aspects of
parkinsonism, it causes postural abnormalities in animal models of Parkinson's
disease. Because bilateral high-frequency STN stimulation improves disease
symptoms, is reversible and is not reported to induce postural side-effects, it
may be a better surgical therapy for Parkinson's disease than lesioning the STN.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1440-1681.2003.03922.x 
PMID: 14678247  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

