

2873. Am J Phys Anthropol. 2004 Jan;123(1):11-22.

Systematics and evolution of the Jacchus group of marmosets (Platyrrhini).

Marroig G(1), Cropp S, Cheverud JM.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Biologia Celular e Genética, Instituto de Biologia,
Universidade do Estado do Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil 20550-013.
Gmarroig@ib.usp.br

Interspecific differentiation and geographic variation patterns in 39 skull
traits of eastern Brazilian marmosets are analyzed. Eastern Callithrix taxa are
distinct morphologically, and no evidence of intergradation among taxa is
observed. Instead, there are sharp, stepped morphological boundaries among taxa, 
consistent with species-level distinction. The morphological similarity cluster
diagram obtained from Mahalanobis distances is different from available molecular
trees, and the general picture emerging is that the eastern Callithrix taxa
should be considered as good species arising recently in South American history. 
In particular, C. kuhlii is morphologically distinct from other marmoset taxa,
including C. geoffroyi and C. penicillata, which were previously hypothesized to 
be the parental populations that formed C. kuhlii by hybridization. Furthermore, 
C. kuhlii populations from southeastern Bahia do not overlap morphologically with
any C. penicillata population, including the upper São Francisco River
populations that display skin colors and pelage patterns to some extent similar
to true Kuhli's marmosets. There is a negative, though insignificant, correlation
between the morphological distance matrix and a Mahalanobis distance matrix
estimated from nine climatic variables, a pattern opposite to that expected under
a parapatric speciation model. This result, together with the lack of clinal
variation in skull traits, suggests that an allopatric model of speciation might 
best explain eastern marmoset diversification.

Copyright 2002 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.10146 
PMID: 14669232  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

