

2888. Psychoneuroendocrinology. 2004 Feb;29(2):141-61.

Social suppression of cortisol in female marmoset monkeys: role of circulating
ACTH levels and glucocorticoid negative feedback.

Saltzman W(1), Prudom SL, Schultz-Darken NJ, Wittwer DJ, Abbott DH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of California, Riverside, CA 92521, USA.
saltzman@citrus.ucr.edu

Behaviorally subordinate female common marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus)
exhibit pronounced, chronic reductions of circulating cortisol levels. Cortisol
suppression in these animals is mediated in part by adrenocortical
hyporesponsiveness to adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH). In addition, we
hypothesized that social subordination may activate a central, neurally mediated 
mechanism to further inhibit hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal function. In this
study, therefore, we evaluated basal plasma cortisol and ACTH concentrations, as 
well as cortisol and ACTH responses to dexamethasone (DEX), in dominant and
subordinate females to initially characterize such a mechanism. Morning plasma
cortisol and ACTH levels were determined before, and 1, 2, and 3 days following
administration of DEX (0.5, 1.0, or 5.0 mg/kg, IM) or saline. Baseline cortisol
concentrations prior to DEX treatment were significantly lower in subordinate
females than in dominants, as previously reported. However, ACTH concentrations
in the same blood samples did not differ between the two groups. Furthermore,
dominant and subordinate females showed similar cortisol and ACTH responses to
DEX. These results indicate that reduced circulating cortisol levels in
subordinate females are not associated with either altered circulating ACTH
concentrations or enhanced responsiveness to glucocorticoid negative feedback.
However, the finding that basal ACTH levels are not elevated in subordinate
females as compared to dominants, in spite of low circulating cortisol
concentrations, suggests that ACTH secretion in subordinate females is restrained
by a steroid-independent inhibitory mechanism operating at the level of the brain
or pituitary.

DOI: 10.1016/s0306-4530(02)00159-2 
PMID: 14604597  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

