

2903. Hum Reprod. 2003 Oct;18(10):2110-7.

Role of the neonatal period of pituitary-testicular activity in germ cell
proliferation and differentiation in the primate testis.

Sharpe RM(1), Fraser HM, Brougham MF, McKinnell C, Morris KD, Kelnar CJ, Wallace 
WH, Walker M.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Human Reproductive Sciences Unit, Centre for Reproductive Biology, The
Chancellor's Building, University of Edinburgh, 49 Little France Crescent,
Edinburgh, EH16 4SB. r.sharpe@hrsu.mrc.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: The neonatal period of pituitary-testicular activity (NPTA) in human 
males has been hypothesized to play a role in germ cell proliferation and
differentiation and to be defective in cryptorchid testes. The present study was 
carried out to establish in the marmoset if suppression of the NPTA, by treatment
with a GnRH antagonist, results in impaired germ cell proliferation and/or
differentiation.
METHODS: Comparison of germ cell (GC) numbers and differentiation from gonocytes 
to pre-spermatogonia and spermatogonia, at birth (in controls) and at the end of 
the NPTA in marmoset co-twin males treated from birth to age 14 weeks with
vehicle or GnRH antagonist.
RESULTS: From birth to age 18-24 weeks, testis weight increased approximately
5-fold and GC number approximately 10-fold, including increased numbers of
gonocytes and pre-spermatogonia and the first appearance of spermatogonia.
Treatment with GnRH antagonist attenuated the increase in testis weight and GC
numbers, but the effect was only partial (24-30% reduction), and the relative
proportions of gonocytes, pre-spermatogonia and spermatogonia in the GnRH
antagonist-treated group were unchanged from control values.
CONCLUSIONS: The NPTA plays only a minor, if any, role in GC proliferation and
differentiation in the marmoset. The changes in GnRH antagonist-treated co-twins 
may reflect impaired GC survival due to withdrawal of gonadotrophin support for
Sertoli cells. These findings do not support a pivotal role for the NPTA in
neonatal GC development in primates.

DOI: 10.1093/humrep/deg413 
PMID: 14507830  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

