

2908. Am J Phys Anthropol. 2003 Sep;122(1):28-37.

Evolutionary implications of the unusual walking mechanics of the common marmoset
(C. jacchus).

Schmitt D(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Anthropology and Anatomy, Duke University Medical
Center, Durham, North Carolina 27710, USA. Daniel_Schmitt@baa.mc.duke.edu

Several features that appear to differentiate the walking gaits of most primates 
from those of most other mammals (the prevalence of diagonal-sequence footfalls, 
high degrees of humeral protraction, and low forelimb vs. hindlimb peak vertical 
forces) are believed to have evolved in response to requirements of locomotion on
thin arboreal supports by early primates that had developed clawless grasping
hands and feet. This putative relationship between anatomy, behavior, and ecology
is tested here by examining gait mechanics in the common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus), a primate that has sharp claws and reduced pedal grasping, and that
spends much of its time clinging on large trunks. Kinematic and kinetic data were
collected on three male Callithrix jacchus as they walked across a force platform
attached to the ground or to raised horizontal poles. The vast majority of all
walking gaits were lateral-sequence. For all steps, the humerus was retracted
(<90 degrees relative to a horizontal axis) or held in a neutral (90 degrees )
position at forelimb touchdown. Peak vertical forces on the forelimb were always 
higher than those on the hindlimb. These three features of the walking gaits of
C. jacchus separate it from any other primate studied (including other
callitrichids). The walking gaits of C. jacchus are mechanically more similar to 
those of small, nonprimate mammals. The results of this study support previous
models that suggest that the unusual suite of features that typify the walking
gaits of most primates are adaptations to the requirements of locomotion on thin 
arboreal supports. These data, along with data from other primates and
marsupials, suggest that primate postcranial and locomotor characteristics are
part of a basal adaptation for walking on thin branches.

Copyright 2003 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.10214 
PMID: 12923902  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

