

2929. Orthod Craniofac Res. 2003 May;6(2):74-82.

Upregulation of immunoreactivity of endothelin-1 and alpha-SMA in PDL
microvasculature following acute tooth loading: an immunohistochemical study in
the marmoset.

Sims MR(1), Ashworth JF, Sampson WJ.

Author information: 
(1)Microcirculation and Lymphology Laboratory, Flinders University, Visiting
Research Fellow Orthodontic Unit, Dental School, Adelaide University, South
Australia, Australia.

OBJECTIVES: To test the hypothesis that a continuous mechanical tooth load would 
elevate immunoreactivity of endothelin-1 (ET-1) and alpha-smooth muscle actin
(alpha-SMA) in the periodontal ligament (PDL) microvasculature.
DESIGN: A randomized control study employing 1.5 h of loading to first molars.
SETTING AND SAMPLE POPULATION: Orthodontic Research Laboratory, Dental School,
Adelaide University. Four young adult, male marmoset monkeys were consecutively
anaesthetized and treated.
EXPERIMENTAL VARIABLE: An external telescoping frame applied a jaw closing load
(120-200 g) transmitted occlusally, via a rubber pad, to randomly assigned
mandibular left or right first molars. Contralateral molars were used as
controls.
OUTCOME MEASURE: Undemineralized, midsagittal, mandibular molar slices,
approximately 150 microm thick were immunolabelled with ET-1 and alpha-SMA
antibodies and examined in a confocal laser scanning microscope (CLSM) for
vascular endothelium and smooth muscle immunolabelling.
RESULTS: Three categories of post-capillary-sized venule endothelial cell
immunolabelling occurred: endothelium labelled solely with ET-1; endothelium
labelled solely with alpha-SMA; endothelium labelled with both ET-1 and
alpha-SMA. In endothelial cells, the alpha-SMA showed a moderate cytoplasmic
distribution with dense peripheral concentration. Loading increased arteriole
alpha-SMA actin labelling.
CONCLUSION: Scattered expression of ET-1 is the default state in primate PDL
endothelial cells. Increased antigenicity of endothelial cells to both ET-1 and
alpha-SMA, and of arteriolar smooth muscle to alpha-SMA, is a response to shear
and compression loads.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1600-0854.2003.o200.x 
PMID: 12809268  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

