

2932. Curr Eye Res. 2003 Jan;26(1):15-23.

Differential expression of the lenticular antioxidant system in laboratory
animals: a determinant of species predilection to oxidative stress-induced ocular
toxicity?

Slaughter MR(1), Thakkar H, O'Brien PJ.

Author information: 
(1)Safety Assessment, GlaxoSmithKline, Ware, UK.
mark_slaughter@sandwich.pfizer.com

PURPOSE: Various animal species have been used to study oxidative stress-induced 
cataractogenesis; however, given that differences in the expression of the lens
antioxidant system may influence species susceptibility to oxidative stress, we
compared and contrasted a broad spectrum of components of the lens antioxidant
system in dog, rat, marmoset, and rabbit.
METHODS: Lenses collected from beagle dogs, Sprague-Dawley rats, marmosets, and
New Zealand white rabbits were assayed for reduced glutathione (GSH), and
activities of copper-zinc and manganese superoxide dismutase (CuZn-SOD; Mn-SOD), 
catalase (CAT), glutathione peroxidase (GPX), gamma-Glutamylcysteine synthetase
(GCS), glutathione reductase (GR), glutathione-S-transferases (GST), and
glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (GPDH), and Trolox equivalent antioxidant
capacity (TEAC).
RESULTS: Expression of the lens antioxidant system varied considerably between
species. Marmoset lens contained the highest levels of GSH, its respective
biosynthetic and recycling enzymes GCS and GR, and the associated H(2
)O(2)-dismutation enzyme GPX. Activities of both SOD isoforms were also highest
in marmoset lens. However, activities of the xenobiotic-conjugating enzyme GST
and NADPH-generating enzyme GPDH were relatively low. In contrast, dog lens had
the lowest levels of GSH, GCS, GR, and Cu-Zn SOD (1/2, 1/2 and 1/33, and 1/63
that in marmoset) but highest levels of GST and GPDH. Rabbit lens contained the
highest CAT activity, at up to 3.5-fold that for marmoset and rat.
CONCLUSION: These results demonstrate substantial variation in lens antioxidant
systems between different laboratory animal species. Given that such variation
may affect relative susceptibility to oxidative stress-mediated ocular toxicity, 
our findings may provide useful information when choosing different animal
species for lens research.

DOI: 10.1076/ceyr.26.1.15.14247 
PMID: 12789532  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

