

294. PeerJ. 2020 Jun 23;8:e9365. doi: 10.7717/peerj.9365. eCollection 2020.

Life in a harsh environment: the effects of age, sex, reproductive condition, and
season on hair cortisol concentration in a wild non-human primate.

Garber PA(1), McKenney A(2), Bartling-John E(3), Bicca-Marques JC(4), De la
Fuente MF(5), Abreu F(5), Schiel N(5), Souto A(6), Phillips KA(3)(7).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anthropology and Program in Ecology, Evolution, and Conservation
Biology, University of Illinois, Urbana, IL, USA.
(2)Natural Resources and Environmental Sciences, University of Illinois, Urbana, 
IL, USA.
(3)Department of Psychology, Trinity University, San Antonio, TX, USA.
(4)Escola de Ciências da Saúde e da Vida, Laboratório de Primatologia, Pontifícia
Universidade Católica do Rio Grande do Sul, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil.
(5)Departamento de Biologia, Laboratório de Etologia Teórica e Aplicada,
Universidade Federal Rural de Pernambuco, Recife, PE, Brazil.
(6)Departamento de Zoologia, Laboratório de Etologia, Universidade Federal de
Pernambuco, Recife, PE, Brazil.
(7)Southwest National Primate Research Center, Texas Biomedical Research
Institute, San Antonio, TX, USA.

Hair cortisol concentration (HCC) provides a long-term retrospective measure of
hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis activity, and is increasingly used to assess 
the life history, health and ecology of wild mammals. Given that sex, age, season
and pregnancy influence HCC, and that it may indicate ongoing stress, we examined
HCC in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) naturally inhabiting a hot and dry
semi-desert like habitat, Caatinga, in northeastern Brazil. We trapped, measured,
weighed, marked and collected shaved hair from the back of the neck of 61 wild
marmosets during the wet and dry seasons. Using enzyme immunoassay, we found that
HCC was higher in the dry season compared with the wet season among all age/sex
classes. Females had significantly higher HCC than males, juveniles had higher
HCC than adults, and reproductively active adult females and non-pregnant/non
lactating adult females did not differ in HCC. There were no interaction effects 
of sex, age, group, or season on HCC. The magnitude of the effect of this
extremely hot and dry environment (average yearly rainfall was only 271 mm) on
HCC in common marmosets is difficult to ascertain as these animals are also
experiencing a variety of other stressors. However, the elevated HCC seen in
common marmosets during the 5-8 month dry season, suggests these primates face an
extended period of heat, water and possibly nutritional stress, which appears to 
result in a high rate of juvenile mortality.

© 2020 Garber et al.

DOI: 10.7717/peerj.9365 
PMCID: PMC7319023
PMID: 32612889 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing
interests.

