

2953. Behav Brain Res. 2003 Apr 17;141(1):51-62.

Unilateral hippocampal and inferotemporal cortex lesions in opposite hemispheres 
impair learning of single-pair visual discriminations as well as visuovisual
conditional tasks in monkeys.

Barefoot HC(1), Maclean CJ, Baker HF, Ridley RM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biosciences, University of Hertfordshire, College Lane, Hatfield
AL10 9AB, UK.

Monkeys with unilateral ablations of the inferotemporal (IT) cortex were not
impaired on learning or retention of single-pair object discriminations or
visuovisual conditional tasks. Addition of an excitotoxic hippocampal lesion to
the hemisphere opposite to the IT ablation impaired retention and acquisition of 
single-pair object discriminations and visuovisual conditional tasks. Histology
revealed no areas of bilaterally symmetrical damage. Previous experiments have
shown that bilateral excitotoxic hippocampal lesions do not impair single-pair
object discriminations although they do produce a substantial impairment on
visuovisual conditional tasks. Bilateral IT ablations produce impairment on
single-pair object discrimination tasks. It is argued that the hippocampus in the
hemisphere with the IT ablation is deprived of feed-forward visual input and that
this, in addition to the contralateral hippocampal lesion, accounts for the
impairment on the visuovisual conditional tasks. It is also argued that feed-back
projections from the hippocampus to the IT cortex influence the learning of
single-pair object discriminations. This influence may be difficult to
demonstrate by the addition of hippocampal lesions to IT lesions because of the
substantial effect of the IT lesion alone. It may be difficult to demonstrate by 
bilateral hippocampal lesions alone since the effect may be below that which
generates an observable impairment. Nonetheless, an effect may be seen when a
hippocampal lesion is made in monkeys with some IT damage, as in this experiment,
as well as by the general observation that large lesions of the temporal lobes
produce larger perceptuo-mnemonic impairments than lesions confined to the
hippocampus or temporal neocortex in monkeys and man.

DOI: 10.1016/s0166-4328(02)00320-0 
PMID: 12672559  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

