

2962. J Clin Microbiol. 2003 Mar;41(3):1225-34.

Characterization of monkey enteropathogenic Escherichia coli (EPEC) and human
typical and atypical EPEC serotype isolates from neotropical nonhuman primates.

Carvalho VM(1), Gyles CL, Ziebell K, Ribeiro MA, Catão-Dias JL, Sinhorini IL,
Otman J, Keller R, Trabulsi LR, Pestana de Castro AF.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Microbiologia, Instituto de Ciências Biomédicas, Universidade 
de São Paulo, São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil.

Enteropathogenic Escherichia coli (EPEC) has been associated with infantile
diarrhea and mortality in humans in developing countries. While diarrhea is also 
a major problem among primates kept in captivity, the role of E. coli is unclear.
This study was designed to characterize diarrheagenic E. coli recovered from the 
feces of 56 New World nonhuman primates, primarily marmosets (Callithrix spp.).
Seventeen of the 56 primates had signs of diarrhea and/or enteritis. E. coli
recovered from feces from these animals was tested by PCR for genes encoding
virulence factors of diarrheagenic E. coli and for patterns of adherence to HeLa 
cells. In addition, isolates were characterized by the fluorescence actin
staining test and by their ability to induce attaching and effacing lesions. PCR 
for the eae gene was positive in 10 of the 39 (27%) apparently healthy animals
and in 8 of the 17 (47%) animals with diarrhea and/or enteritis. Colonies of
eae(+) E. coli were serotyped and examined by PCR for genes encoding EPEC
virulence markers. The eae(+) E. coli isolates recovered from both healthy and
sick nonhuman primates demonstrated virulence-associated attributes similar to
those of EPEC strains implicated in human disease and are designated monkey EPEC.
The results presented here indicate that EPEC may be a significant pathogen for
nonhuman primates, deserving further investigation. The similarities between the 
affected animals investigated in this study and human EPEC infections suggest
that marmosets may represent an important model for EPEC in humans.

DOI: 10.1128/JCM.41.3.1225-1234.2003 
PMCID: PMC150271
PMID: 12624055  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

