

2963. Horm Behav. 2003 Jan;43(1):67-82.

Are subordinates always stressed? A comparative analysis of rank differences in
cortisol levels among primates.

Abbott DH(1), Keverne EB, Bercovitch FB, Shively CA, Mendoza SP, Saltzman W,
Snowdon CT, Ziegler TE, Banjevic M, Garland T Jr, Sapolsky RM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics/Gynecology, University of Wisconsin, Madison,WI
53706, USA.

Among primate species there is pronounced variation in the relationship between
social status and measures of stress physiology. An informal meta-analysis was
designed to investigate the basis of this diversity across different primate
societies. Species were included only if a substantial amount of published
information was available regarding both social behavior and rank-related
differences in stress physiology. Four Old World and three New World species met 
these criteria, including societies varying from small-group, singular
cooperative breeders (common marmoset and cotton top tamarin) to large-troop,
multi-male, multi-female polygynous mating systems (rhesus, cynomolgus, talapoin,
squirrel monkeys, and olive baboon). A questionnaire was formulated to obtain
information necessary to characterize the stress milieu for individuals in
particular primate societies. We standardized cortisol values within each species
by calculating the ratio of basal cortisol concentrations of subordinates to
those of dominants in stable dominance hierarchies and expressing the ratio as a 
percentage (relative cortisol levels). The meta-analysis identified two variables
that significantly predicted relative cortisol levels: subordinates exhibited
higher relative cortisol levels when they (1). were subjected to higher rates of 
stressors, and (2). experienced decreased opportunities for social (including
close kin) support. These findings have important implications for understanding 
the different physiological consequences of dominant and subordinate social
status across primate societies and how social rank may differ in its behavioral 
and physiological manifestations among primate societies.

DOI: 10.1016/s0018-506x(02)00037-5 
PMID: 12614636  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

