

297. J Anat. 2020 Nov;237(5):907-915. doi: 10.1111/joa.13250. Epub 2020 Jun 25.

Muscle-tendon arrangement and innervation pattern of the m. flexor digitorum
superficialis in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), squirrel monkey
(Saimiri sciureus) and spider monkey (Ateles sp.).

Emura K(1), Hirasaki E(2), Arakawa T(3).

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Health Care Sciences, Himeji Dokkyo University, Himeji, Japan.
(2)Primate Research Institute, Kyoto University, Inuyama, Japan.
(3)Department of Rehabilitation Science, Kobe University Graduate School of
Health Sciences, Kobe, Japan.

The muscle-tendon arrangement of the m. flexor digitorum superficialis (FDS)
varies among different primate groups. Recent developmental investigations
revealed that the primordium of FDS emerges in the hand region first and
relocates to the forearm later. The relationship between the diverse
muscle-tendon arrangement and the characteristic developmental process of FDS is 
important for understanding the evolutionary changes of the FDS. Moreover, the
innervation pattern cannot go unremarked when discussing the muscle homology and 
evolution. We examined the muscle-tendon arrangement and intramuscular nerve
distribution of the FDS in three genera of Platyrrhini: three common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus), two squirrel monkeys (Saimiri sciureus) and two spider
monkeys (Ateles sp.). We observed that the FDS consisted of multiple muscle
bellies. The origin of the muscle bellies to digits II and V varied, whereas
muscle bellies to digits III and IV consistently originated from the medial
epicondyle. The muscle-tendon arrangement of the FDS differed among the three
genera owing to the different origins of muscle bellies to digits II and V. In
all the examined specimens, the muscle bellies to digits II and/or III were
innervated by the direct nerve branches from the median nerve. However, the
muscle bellies to digits IV and V never received direct nerve branches from the
median nerve. Nerve branches within the belly to digit III extended into the
belly to digit IV, and one nerve branch within the belly to digit IV extended
into the belly to digit V. These consistent nerve distribution patterns suggest
that different patterns of FDS muscle-tendon arrangement have changed from that
of a common ancestral condition. It is plausible that the diverse origins of
muscle bellies in the FDS are attributable to the difference in the destination
for the relocation of the muscle bellies during developmental processes.

© 2020 Anatomical Society.

DOI: 10.1111/joa.13250 
PMCID: PMC7542189 [Available on 2022-11-01]
PMID: 32584452  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

