

2993. Vis Neurosci. 2002 Sep-Oct;19(5):583-92.

Feedback from V1 and inhibition from beyond the classical receptive field
modulates the responses of neurons in the primate lateral geniculate nucleus.

Webb BS(1), Tinsley CJ, Barraclough NE, Easton A, Parker A, Derrington AM.

Author information: 
(1)School of Psychology, University of Nottingham, University Park, Nottingham,
NG7 2RD, United Kingdom. bsw@psychology.nottingham.ac.uk

It is well established that the responses of neurons in the lateral geniculate
nucleus (LGN) can be modulated by feedback from visual cortex, but it is still
unclear how cortico-geniculate afferents regulate the flow of visual information 
to the cortex in the primate. Here we report the effects, on the gain of LGN
neurons, of differentially stimulating the extraclassical receptive field, with
feedback from the striate cortex intact or inactivated in the marmoset monkey,
Callithrix jacchus. A horizontally oriented grating of optimal size, spatial
frequency, and temporal frequency was presented to the classical receptive field.
The grating varied in contrast (range: 0-1) from trial to trial, and was
presented alone, or surrounded by a grating of the same or orthogonal
orientation, contained within either a larger annular field, or flanks oriented
either horizontally or vertically. V1 was ablated to inactivate
cortico-geniculate feedback. The maximum firing rate of LGN neurons was greater
with V1 intact, but was reduced by visually stimulating beyond the classical
receptive field. Large horizontal or vertical annular gratings were most
effective in reducing the maximum firing rate of LGN neurons. Magnocellular
neurons were most susceptible to this inhibition from beyond the classical
receptive field. Extraclassical inhibition was less effective with V1 ablated. We
conclude that inhibition from beyond the classical receptive field reduces the
excitatory influence of V1 in the LGN. The net balance between cortico-geniculate
excitation and inhibition from beyond the classical receptive field is one
mechanism by which signals relayed from the retina to V1 are controlled.

DOI: 10.1017/s0952523802195046 
PMID: 12507325  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

