

2994. Exp Neurol. 2003 Jan;179(1):90-102.

Both short- and long-acting D-1/D-2 dopamine agonists induce less dyskinesia than
L-DOPA in the MPTP-lesioned common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Maratos EC(1), Jackson MJ, Pearce RK, Cannizzaro C, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenenerative Disease Research Centre, Guy's, King's and St. Thomas'
School of Biomedical Sciences, King's College London, London SE1 1UL, United
Kingdom.

The current concept of dyskinesia is that pulsatile stimulation of D-1 or D-2
receptors by L-DOPA or short-acting dopamine agonists is more likely to induce
dyskinesia compared to long-acting drugs producing more continuous receptor
stimulation. We now investigate the ability of two mixed D-1/D-2 agonists, namely
pergolide (long-acting) and apomorphine (short-acting), to induce dyskinesia in
drug-nai;ve MPTP-lesioned primates, compared to L-DOPA. Adult common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus) were lesioned with MPTP (2 mg/kg/day sc for 5 days) and
subsequently treated with equieffective antiparkinsonian doses of L-DOPA,
apomorphine, or pergolide for 28 days. L-DOPA, apomorphine, and pergolide
reversed the MPTP-induced motor deficits to the same degree with no difference in
peak response. L-DOPA and apomorphine had a rapid onset of action and short
duration of effect producing a pulsatile motor response, while pergolide had a
slow onset and long-lasting activity producing a continuous profile of motor
stimulation. L-DOPA rapidly induced dyskinesia that increased markedly in
severity and frequency over the course of the study, impairing normal motor
activity by day 20. Dyskinesia in animals treated with pergolide or apomorphine
increased steadily, reaching mild to moderate severity but remaining
significantly less marked than that produced by L-DOPA. There was no difference
in the intensity of dyskinesia produced by apomorphine and pergolide. These data 
suggest that factors other than duration of drug action may be important in the
induction of dyskinesia but support the use of dopamine agonists in early
Parkinson's disease, as a means of delaying L-DOPA therapy and reducing the risk 
of developing dyskinesia.

DOI: 10.1006/exnr.2002.8055 
PMID: 12504871  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

