

3000. Horm Behav. 2002 Nov;42(3):356-67.

Parent-daughter relationships and social controls on fertility in female common
marmosets, Callithrix jacchus.

Ziegler TE(1), Sousa MB.

Author information: 
(1)Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, Brazil.
ziegler@primate.wisc.edu

This study examined the reproductive status of mothers and daughters to determine
if parent-eldest daughter interactions would influence the daughter's fertility
in the cooperatively breeding common marmoset, Callithrix jacchus. Twice weekly
fecal samples were collected for hormonal analyses from seven daughters and their
mothers and analyzed for cortisol, estradiol, and progesterone by EIA. Behavioral
data were collected three times weekly while the daughters were under three
conditions: natal family, after removing from the family and paring with a novel 
male, and after removing from the paired condition and placed back with the
family (renatal). Under the natal condition, five of the seven daughters
exhibited ovarian cycles while their mother was pregnant or displaying ovarian
cycling. The five cycling daughters spent significantly more time initiating
affilative behaviors with their mothers than with their fathers and showed
significant changes in their behavior over the length of the ovarian cycle.
However, aggression, submission, and sexual behaviors were very low for daughters
in the natal phase. No differences between cortisol levels were found for a
daughter and her mother. Cortisol levels showed a significant and sustained
increase upon pairing within the first 20 days. All females but one cycled while 
paired. Six of the seven females were accepted back into the family after pairing
and five of the seven females were ovulating. These results suggest that marmoset
daughters are not necessarily reproductively suppressed while living with the
family. Additionally, these data suggest that female marmosets that leave their
family to explore mating opportunities with other groups may return to their
family without reproductive or aggressive consequences.

DOI: 10.1006/hbeh.2002.1828 
PMID: 12460595  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

