

3001. Hum Exp Toxicol. 2002 Sep-Oct;21(9-10):543-67.

Feasibility of human trials to assess developmental immunotoxicity, and some
comparison with data on New World monkeys.

Neubert RT(1), Webb JR, Neubert D.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Clinical Pharmacology and Toxicology, Benjamin Franklin Medical
Center, Free University Berlin, Berlin, Germany.

Procedures to reveal 'immunotoxic' potentials of chemicals in animal experiments 
(mostly in rodents) have been recommended, but the selection of test systems is
rather arbitrary. The predictive power of extrapolations to the possible
situation in humans is unknown because human studies to confirm or to reject
clues from animal data are largely lacking. End points selected in animal studies
and those expected to be relevant in humans are not identical. Results of animal 
experiments are based on doses, generally ignoring the important species
differences in pharmacokinetics. This unfavorable situation is especially
pronounced when attempting to evaluate 'environmental chemicals'. Because much
more information is available on many medicinal drugs, exposures can be defined
and pharmacokinetic data are available or obtainable. The situation is even more 
complicated when attempting to assess possible adverse effects on the developing 
immune system: in addition to the problems mentioned, numerous different
developmental periods with varying susceptibilities must be considered, and
species differences in the immune response are superimposed with large
differences in pre-, early post-, and later postnatal development.
Simultaneously, the kinetic variables are continuously changing with time (with
additional variability among species). Different results, even between rats and
mice, are bound to occur. Extrapolation to the situation possibly relevant for
human exposure will be almost impossible, especially from rodent data. The
majority of such effects induced peri- or early postnatally may be expected to be
reversible. It must also be assessed whether qualitatively different adverse
effects are likely to be induced during 'development', which cannot be revealed
(accepting quantitative differences) by more easily performed tests on the adult 
organism. Considering the intrinsic difficulties, the most promising approach
would be to directly obtain data from human trials. This is feasible for
medicinal drugs. Alternatively, data on nonhuman primates, the species
phylogenetically closest to man, may provide useful information. The status quo
for such a strategy and the possible pitfalls are discussed in this overview.

DOI: 10.1191/0960327102ht295oa 
PMID: 12458914  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

