

3008. J Neurophysiol. 2002 Nov;88(5):2684-99.

Temporal coherence sensitivity in auditory cortex.

Barbour DL(1), Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.
dbarbour@bme.jhu.edu

Natural sounds often contain energy over a broad spectral range and consequently 
overlap in frequency when they occur simultaneously; however, such sounds under
normal circumstances can be distinguished perceptually (e.g., the cocktail party 
effect). Sound components arising from different sources have distinct (i.e.,
incoherent) modulations, and incoherence appears to be one important cue used by 
the auditory system to segregate sounds into separately perceived acoustic
objects. Here we show that, in the primary auditory cortex of awake marmoset
monkeys, many neurons responsive to amplitude- or frequency-modulated tones at a 
particular carrier frequency [the characteristic frequency (CF)] also demonstrate
sensitivity to the relative modulation phase between two otherwise identically
modulated tones: one at CF and one at a different carrier frequency. Changes in
relative modulation phase reflect alterations in temporal coherence between the
two tones, and the most common neuronal response was found to be a maximum of
suppression for the coherent condition. Coherence sensitivity was generally found
in a narrow frequency range in the inhibitory portions of the frequency response 
areas (FRA), indicating that only some off-CF neuronal inputs into these cortical
neurons interact with on-CF inputs on the same time scales. Over the population
of neurons studied, carrier frequencies showing coherence sensitivity were found 
to coincide with the carrier frequencies of inhibition, implying that inhibitory 
inputs create the effect. The lack of strong coherence-induced facilitation also 
supports this interpretation. Coherence sensitivity was found to be greatest for 
modulation frequencies of 16-128 Hz, which is higher than the phase-locking
capability of most cortical neurons, implying that subcortical neurons could play
a role in the phenomenon. Collectively, these results reveal that auditory
cortical neurons receive some off-CF inputs temporally matched and some
temporally unmatched to the on-CF input(s) and respond in a fashion that could be
utilized by the auditory system to segregate natural sounds containing similar
spectral components (such as vocalizations from multiple conspecifics) based on
stimulus coherence.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00253.2002 
PMID: 12424304  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

