

3009. J Immunol. 2002 Nov 15;169(10):5415-23.

Transfer of central nervous system autoantigens and presentation in secondary
lymphoid organs.

de Vos AF(1), van Meurs M, Brok HP, Boven LA, Hintzen RQ, van der Valk P, Ravid
R, Rensing S, Boon L, 't Hart BA, Laman JD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, Erasmus Medical Centre, 3000 DR Rotterdam, The
Netherlands.

Dendritic cells are thought to regulate tolerance induction vs immunization by
transferring Ags and peripheral signals to draining lymph nodes (LN). However,
whether myelin Ag transfer and presentation in LN occurs during demyelinating
brain disease is unknown. In this study, we demonstrate redistribution of
autoantigens from brain lesions to cervical LN in monkey experimental autoimmune 
encephalomyelitis (EAE) and in multiple sclerosis (MS). Immunohistochemical
analysis revealed significantly more cells containing myelin Ags in cervical LN
of monkeys with EAE compared with those of healthy control monkeys. Myelin Ags
were observed in cells expressing dendritic cell/macrophage-specific markers, MHC
class II, and costimulatory molecules. Moreover, these cells were directly
juxtaposed to T cells, suggesting that cognate interactions between
myelin-containing APC and T cells are taking place in brain-draining LN. Indeed, 
myelin Ag-reactive T cells were observed in cervical LN from marmosets and rhesus
monkeys. Importantly, these findings were paralleled by our findings in human
tissue. We observed significantly more myelin Ag-containing cells in LN of
individuals with MS compared with those of control individuals. These cells
expressed APC markers, as observed in marmosets and rhesus monkeys. These
findings suggest that during MS and EAE, modulation of T cell reactivity against 
brain-derived Ags also takes place in cervical LN and not necessarily inside the 
brain. A major implication is that novel therapeutic strategies may be targeted
to peripheral events, thereby circumventing the blood-brain barrier.

DOI: 10.4049/jimmunol.169.10.5415 
PMID: 12421916  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

