

3013. J Virol. 2002 Dec;76(23):12055-68.

Complete genomic sequence of an Epstein-Barr virus-related herpesvirus naturally 
infecting a new world primate: a defining point in the evolution of oncogenic
lymphocryptoviruses.

Rivailler P(1), Cho YG, Wang F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, 
Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA. privailler@rics.bwh.harvard.edu

Callitrichine herpesvirus 3 (CalHV-3) was isolated from a B-cell lymphoma arising
spontaneously in the New World primate Callithrix jacchus, the common marmoset.
Partial genomic sequence analysis definitively identified CalHV-3 as a member of 
the Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-related lymphocryptovirus (LCV) genus and extended
the known host range of LCVs beyond humans and Old World nonhuman primates. We
have now completed the first genomic sequence of an LCV infecting a New World
primate by describing the unique short region, the major internal repeat, and a
portion of the unique long region. This portion of the genome contains the
putative latent origin of replication and 13 additional open reading frames
(ORFs), 5 of which show no homology to any viral or cell genes. One of the novel 
genes, C5, is a positional homologue for the transformation-essential EBV gene
EBNA-2. The marmoset LCV genome is also notable for the absence of viral
interleukin-10 and small nonpolyadenylated RNA homologues. Marmoset LCV
transcripts encoding putative latent infection nuclear proteins have a common
leader sequence that is spliced from the major internal repeat in a manner
similar to that of the EBV EBNA-LP, suggesting strong conservation of a common
promoter and splicing of these latent infection mRNAs. An EBV LMP2A-like spliced 
transcript crossing the terminal repeats encodes a unique ORF, C7, with multiple 
transmembrane domains and tyrosine kinase phosphorylation sites functionally
reminiscent of EBV LMP2A. However, the carboxy-terminal location of the candidate
phosphotyrosine residues is more reminiscent of the Kaposi's sarcoma-associated
herpesvirus K15 gene and provides potential evidence of an evolutionary
transition from rhadinoviruses to lymphocryptoviruses. The unusual gene
repertoire of the marmoset LCV differentiates ancestral viral genes likely
present in an LCV progenitor from viral genes acquired later as primates and LCV 
coevolved, providing a defining point in the evolution of oncogenic LCVs.

DOI: 10.1128/jvi.76.23.12055-12068.2002 
PMCID: PMC136909
PMID: 12414947  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

