

3025. Biol Reprod. 2002 Oct;67(4):1180-8.

Angiogenesis in the corpus luteum of early pregnancy in the marmoset and the
effects of vascular endothelial growth factor immunoneutralization on
establishment of pregnancy.

Rowe AJ(1), Morris KD, Bicknell R, Fraser HM.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council Human Reproductive Sciences Unit, Centre for
Reproductive Biology, Edinburgh EH3 9ET, United Kingdom.

This study investigated vascular and molecular changes in the corpus luteum (CL) 
of early pregnancy in the marmoset. Ovaries were studied on Days 21 (n = 6) and
28 (n = 6) of pregnancy and compared with corpora lutea from Day 21 (late luteal)
of the nonconception cycle (n = 8). Endothelial cell proliferation was measured
by immunocytochemical detection of incorporated bromodeoxyuridine. Endothelial
cell and pericyte area were assessed by quantitative immunocytochemistry for CD31
and alpha-smooth muscle actin, respectively. Vascular endothelial growth factor
(VEGF) and its receptors, kinase insert domain-containing region (KDR) and
fms-like tyrosine kinase (Flt) mRNA, were localized and quantified in in situ
hybridization. In addition, the effects of immunoneutralization of VEGF on
establishment and maintenance of pregnancy were investigated by administering a
VEGF neutralizing antibody on Days 0-10 of the luteal phase during potentially
fertile cycles (n = 10) and compared with fertile controls (n = 6). No
differences in the cellular or morphological parameters were found between
pregnant and structurally intact nonpregnant corpora lutea. No major differences 
were found in expression of VEGF, Flt, or KDR in these CL. VEGF
immunoneutralization markedly suppressed plasma progesterone secretion during
treatment, but pregnancy rate was not significantly reduced. Thus, a role for
VEGF in early pregnancy in the marmoset remains to be established. These results 
show that, by the late luteal phase in the marmoset, the corpus luteum has
established a mature vascular system and the molecular capacity to synthesize
VEGF and its receptors. A pregnancy-induced spurt of angiogenesis or gene
expression does not appear to take place; rather, maintenance of the existing
vasculature is all that is required for the establishment of pregnancy.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod67.4.1180 
PMID: 12297534  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

