

3045. J Neurophysiol. 2002 Aug;88(2):579-94.

Sense of taste in a new world monkey, the common marmoset: recordings from the
chorda tympani and glossopharyngeal nerves.

Danilova V(1), Danilov Y, Roberts T, Tinti JM, Nofre C, Hellekant G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Animal Health and Biomedical Sciences, University of Wisconsin, 
Madison 53706, USA.

Whole nerve, as well as single fiber, responses in the chorda tympani proper (CT)
and glossopharyngeal (NG) nerves of common marmosets were recorded during taste
stimulation with three salts, four acids, six bitter compounds and more than 30
sweeteners. We recorded responses of 49 CT and 41 NG taste fibers. The
hierarchical cluster analysis distinguished three major clusters in both CT and
NG: S, Q, and H. The S(CT) fibers, 38% of all CT fibers, responded only to
sweeteners. The S(CT) fibers did not respond during stimulation with salts,
acids, and bitter compounds but exhibited OFF responses after citric and ascorbic
acids, quinine hydrochloride (QHCl), and salts (in 80% of S(CT) fibers). S(NG)
fibers, 50% of all NG fibers, also responded to sweeteners but not to stimuli of 
other taste qualities (except for citric acid, which stimulated 70% of the S(NG) 
fibers). Some sweeteners, including natural (the sweet proteins brazzein,
monellin) and artificial [cyclamate, neohesperidin dihydrochalcone (NHDHC),
N-3,5-dichlorophenyl-N'-(S)-alpha-methylbenzylguanidineacetate (DMGA),
N-4-cyanophenylcarbamoyl-(R,S)-3-amino-3-(3,4-methylenedioxyphenyl) propionic
acid (CAMPA)] did not elicit responses in the S fibers. In general, the response 
profiles of the S(CT) and S(NG) clusters were very similar, the correlation
coefficient between the responses to sweeteners in these clusters was 0.94. Both 
the Q(CT) and the Q(NG) fibers (40 and 46% of all fibers) were predominantly
responsive to bitter compounds, although their responses to the same set of
bitter compounds were quite different. Sweeteners with sweet/bitter taste for
humans also stimulated the Q clusters. The H clusters (22 and 3% of all fibers)
were predominantly responsive to acids and did not respond to stimuli of other
taste qualities. However, bitter stimuli, mainly QHCl, inhibited activity in 70% 
of H(CT) fibers. Among a total of 90 fibers from both nerves there was only 1
NaCl-best fiber in CT. We found, however, that 35% of the CT fibers reacted to
salts with inhibition of activity during stimulation, followed by an OFF
response. This OFF response was diminished or eliminated by amiloride. These
characteristics indicate that amiloride-sensitive sodium channels are involved in
salt transduction in marmosets. In the two NG fibers responding to NaCl, we
recorded neither suppression by amiloride nor OFF responses. Comparison of
marmoset data with those of other nonhuman primates studied, rhesus and
chimpanzee, demonstrates phylogenetic trends in the organization of taste system.
This can help to uncover pathways of primate evolution.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.2002.88.2.579 
PMID: 12163511  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

