

3047. Primates. 2002 Jul;43(3):201-16.

Behavioral and cardiophysiological responses of common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus) to social and environmental changes.

Gerber P(1), Schnell CR, Anzenberger G.

Author information: 
(1)Anthropological Institute and Museum, University of Zürich, Winterthurertrasse
190, CH-8057 Zürich, Switzerland. basa@aim.unizh.ch

Under captive conditions common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) show socially
monogamous propensities. Male and female form a social bond as characterized by
signs of behavioral arousal during separation of the pairmates, high levels of
affiliative interactions between pairmates and agonistic responses towards
strange conspecifics. In the present study behavioral and cardiophysiological
responses of mated individuals of common marmosets were recorded while the
animals were in an unfamiliar environment (1) alone, (2) with the pairmate, or
(3) with an opposite-sexed stranger. Pairmates of 6 established pairs were tested
in 3 replicates yielding a total of 36 trials per experiment. A trial was divided
into three 10-min segments (baseline; unfamiliar environment; reunion).
Behavioral responses were videotaped with a remote controlled camera system
installed within the cage. Systolic (SBP) and diastolic blood pressure (DBP), and
heart rate (HR) as well as locomotor activity (ACT) were recorded telemetrically 
through peritoneally implanted transmitters. The individuals' responses measured 
while in an unfamiliar environment was only reduced by the pairmate, but not by
an opposite-sexed stranger. No affiliative behaviors occurred between strange
conspecifics, whereas aggressive and sexual behaviors were observed. During
reunion with the pairmate individuals recovered physiologically. The present
study shows that an individualized pair bond exists between pairmates of common
marmosets. Further, it becomes evident that establishing a social bond with the
pairmate is important for maintaining physiological homeostasis.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02629648 
PMID: 12145401  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

