

3049. Chem Senses. 2002 Jul;27(6):529-37.

Identification of V1R-like putative pheromone receptor sequences in non-human
primates. Characterization of V1R pseudogenes in marmoset, a primate species that
possesses an intact vomeronasal organ.

Giorgi D(1), Rouquier S.

Author information: 
(1)IGH, CNRS UPR 1142, Montpellier, France.

The vomeronasal organ (VNO) is responsible in terrestrial vertebrates for the
sensory perception of some pheromones, chemicals that elicit characteristic
behaviors among individuals of the same species. Two multigene families (V1R,
V2R) that encode proteins with seven putative transmembrane domains that are
expressed selectively in different neuron subsets of the VNO have been described 
in rodents. Pheromone-induced behaviors and a functional VNO have been described 
in a number of mammals, but this sensory organ seems absent in adult catarrhines 
and apes, including humans. Until now, only pseudogenes have been isolated in
humans, except one putative V1R (hV1RL1) sequence expressed in the main olfactory
epithelium. We sought to isolate V1R-like genes in a New World monkey species,
the marmoset Callithrix jacchus, that possesses an intact VNO and for which
pheromone-induced behavior has been well documented. Using library screening
approaches, we have identified five different sequences that exhibit
characteristic features of V1R sequences, but that are non-functional
pseudogenes. In an attempt to sort out functional V1R genes, we next cloned by
polymerase chain reaction (PCR) the primate orthologues of hV1RL1. This approach 
was successful for gorilla, chimpanzee and orangutan, but not for the other
species, including marmoset, probably because these species are too divergent
from humans. Chimpanzee and orangutan V1RL1 genes are pseudogenes, whereas the
gorilla counterpart is potentially functional. These observations raise the
possibility that the V1R family has evolved in such a manner in mammals that
every species that relies on a VNO-mediated sensory function possesses its own
set of functional vomeronasal genes.

DOI: 10.1093/chemse/27.6.529 
PMID: 12142329  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

