

3057. J Neurosci. 2002 Jul 1;22(13):5705-12.

Functional domains in dorsal striatum of the nonhuman primate are defined by the 
dynamic behavior of dopamine.

Cragg SJ(1), Hille CJ, Greenfield SA.

Author information: 
(1)University Department of Pharmacology, Oxford OX1 3QT, United Kingdom.
stephanie.cragg@pharm.ox.ac.uk

The dorsal striatum comprises a continuum of distinct functional domains, limbic,
associative, and sensorimotor. In the primate it exclusively subdivides further
into two nuclei, the putamen and caudate. Dopamine (DA) transmission is
differentially affected between these nuclei in neurodegenerative diseases such
as Parkinson's and by psychostimulants such as cocaine. Because rodent systems
can offer only limited insight into DA systems of the human brain, a fuller
appreciation of DA transmission and its role in dysfunction requires direct study
in primates. DA behavior was explored in the major functional domains of the
caudate nucleus and compared with the putamen, using fast-scan cyclic voltammetry
in striatal sections from the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). There was
domain-specific variation in extracellular DA transients [i.e., concentration
([DA](o)) released by a single stimulus and the rate maximum of DA uptake,
V(max)]. Across nuclei, functional rather than anatomical regions were
differentiated by these dynamics. The largest, fastest DA transients were at
motor-associated loci. Evoked [DA](o) at physiological frequencies was
differently frequency-sensitive between functional domains but not between
anatomical nuclei. In contrast, presynaptic depression was not an index of
regional differentiation, recovering with similar kinetics at all loci. Within a 
given functional domain of dorsal striatum, the dynamics of DA release and uptake
are similar for the putamen and the caudate nucleus. Conversely, distinct
functional domains are defined by these DA dynamics, in a manner more marked in
primates than in rodents. These data from the primate brain highlight differences
in DA availability that may be central to DA function and dysfunction in the
human.

DOI: 20026534 
PMCID: PMC6758186
PMID: 12097522  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

