

3065. Endocrinology. 2002 Jul;143(7):2797-807.

Prevention of thecal angiogenesis, antral follicular growth, and ovulation in the
primate by treatment with vascular endothelial growth factor Trap R1R2.

Wulff C(1), Wilson H, Wiegand SJ, Rudge JS, Fraser HM.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council, Human Reproductive Sciences Unit, Edinburgh, United 
Kingdom EH3 9ET. christine-wulff@onlinehome.de

This study was designed to investigate the effects of inhibition of thecal
angiogenesis on follicular development in the marmoset monkey (Callithrix
jacchus). To inhibit vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), a soluble
combined truncated form of the fms-like tyrosine kinase (Flt) and kinase insert
domain-containing receptor (KDR) receptor fused to IgG (VEGF Trap R1R2) was
administered for 10 d during the follicular phase of the cycle. Changes in
angiogenesis and follicular cell proliferation were quantified using
immunocytochemistry for bromodeoxyuridine to obtain a proliferation index, CD31
to visualize endothelial cell area, and dual staining to distinguish thecal
endothelial cell proliferation. The effects of the treatment on follicular
development were assessed by morphometric analyses by measuring follicle
diameter, thecal thickness, and a proliferation index for granulosa cells.
Follicular atresia was detected and quantified using the terminal
deoxynucleotidyltransferase-UTP nick end labeling method. Effects on gene
expression of VEGF and its receptors, Flt and KDR, were studied by in situ
hybridization. VEGF Trap R1R2 treatment resulted in a significant decrease in
thecal proliferation and endothelial cell area, demonstrating the suppression of 
thecal angiogenesis. The absence of a normal thecal vasculature was associated
with a significantly reduced thecal thickness. Antral follicular development was 
severely compromised, as indicated by decreased granulosa cell proliferation,
decreased follicular diameter, and lack of development of ovulatory follicles.
Furthermore, the rate of atresia was significantly increased. VEGF expression in 
granulosa and thecal cells increased after treatment, whereas Flt and KDR
expressions in thecal endothelial cells were markedly decreased. These results
show that VEGF Trap treatment is associated with the suppression of follicular
angiogenesis, which results in the inhibition of antral follicular development
and ovulation.

DOI: 10.1210/endo.143.7.8886 
PMID: 12072415  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

