

3074. Reprod Fertil Dev. 2001;13(7-8):599-607.

The evolution of neuroendocrine mechanisms regulating sexual behaviour in female 
primates.

Dixson A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Reproduction of Endangered Species, Zoological Society of San
Diego, California 92112-0551, USA. adixson@sandiegozoo.org

The common marmoset is a small New World primate that lives in extended family
groups. Female marmosets show rhythmic changes in proceptivity during their
28-Day ovarian cycle, but fluctuations in sexual receptivity are relatively
subtle. Receptivity persists even after ovariectomy and adrenalectomy in the
female marmoset. In the intact female, increases in proceptivity at mid cycle are
due to the activational effects of oestradiol. Treatment of the ovariectomized
female with oestradiol-17beta stimulates proceptivity and this effect is blocked 
by thermal or excitotoxic (neuronal cell body specific) lesions in the anterior
or medial hypothalamus. Implantation of oestradiol into the anterior hypothalamus
(via guide cannulae) also activates proceptivity. Luteinizing hormone releasing
hormone (LHRH) may also form part of the neuroendocrine mechanism controlling
proceptivity in the intact female, given that exogenous LHRH stimulates
proceptivity in ovariectomized, oestrogen-primed marmosets. These effects of
oestradiol (and LHRH) on proceptive displays are much more pronounced than any
effects involving sexual receptivity. Conversely, treatment of the ovariectomized
female with progesterone, at doses sufficient to produce luteal phase
concentrations of circulating hormone, causes a marked suppression of
proceptivity, but only small decreases in sexual receptivity. These experiments
on marmosets remain some of the very few studies to define how hormones influence
the brain and sexual behaviour in female primates. They support the conclusion
that sexual receptivity is not under rigid neuroendocrine control in female
anthropoids, and that there is no peri-ovulatory period of oestrus, such as
occurs in most non-primate mammals.

DOI: 10.1071/rd01075 
PMID: 11999311  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

