

3079. J Neurophysiol. 2002 May;87(5):2237-61.

Neural representations of sinusoidal amplitude and frequency modulations in the
primary auditory cortex of awake primates.

Liang L(1), Lu T, Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.

We investigated neural coding of sinusoidally modulated tones (sAM and sFM) in
the primary auditory cortex (A1) of awake marmoset monkeys, demonstrating that
there are systematic cortical representations of embedded temporal features that 
are based on both average discharge rate and stimulus-synchronized discharge
patterns. The rate-representation appears to be coded alongside the
stimulus-synchronized discharges, such that the auditory cortex has access to
both rate and temporal representations of the stimulus at high and low
frequencies, respectively. Furthermore, we showed that individual auditory
cortical neurons, as well as populations of neurons, have common features in
their responses to both sAM and sFM stimuli. These results may explain the
similarities in the perception of sAM and sFM stimuli as well as the different
perceptual qualities effected by different modulation frequencies. The main
findings include the following. 1) Responses of cortical neurons to sAM and sFM
stimuli in awake marmosets were generally much stronger than responses to
unmodulated tones. Some neurons responded to sAM or sFM stimuli but not to pure
tones. 2) The discharge rate-based modulation transfer function typically had a
band-pass shape and was centered at a preferred modulation frequency (rBMF).
Population-averaged mean firing rate peaked at 16- to 32-Hz modulation frequency,
indicating that the A1 was maximally excited by this frequency range of temporal 
modulations. 3) Only approximately 60% of recorded units showed statistically
significant discharge synchrony to the modulation waveform of sAM or sFM stimuli.
The discharge synchrony-based best modulation frequency (tBMF) was typically
lower than the rBMF measured from the same neuron. The distribution of rBMF over 
the population of neurons was approximately one octave higher than the
distribution of tBMF. 4) There was a high degree of similarity between cortical
responses to sAM and sFM stimuli that was reflected in both discharge rate- or
synchrony-based response measures. 5) Inhibition appeared to be a contributing
factor in limiting responses at modulation frequencies above the rBMF of a
neuron. And 6) neurons with shorter response latencies tended to have higher tBMF
and maximum discharge synchrony frequency than those with longer response
latencies. rBMF was not significantly correlated with the minimum response
latency.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.2002.87.5.2237 
PMID: 11976364  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

