

3080. Braz J Med Biol Res. 2002 Apr;35(4):437-44.

The distribution of presumptive thoracic paraganglionic tissue in the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Clarke JA(1), de B Daly M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Royal Free and University College Medical School,
London, UK. f.leitao@rfc.ucl.ac.uk

The aortic-pulmonary regions (APR) of seven adult marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) 
and the region of the right subclavian artery of a further three marmosets were
diffusion-fixed with 10% buffered formol-saline solution. In both regions serial 
5 microm sections were cut and stained by the Martius yellow, brilliant crystal
scarlet and soluble blue method. Presumptive thoracic paraganglionic (PTP) tissue
was only observed in the APR. PTP tissue was composed of small groups of cells
that varied in size and number. The distribution of the groups of cells was
extremely variable, so much so that it would be misleading to attempt to classify
their position; they were not circumscribed by a connective tissue capsule, but
were always related to the thoracic branches of the left vagus nerve. The cells
lay in loose areolar tissue characteristic of this part of the mediastinum and
received their blood supply from small adjacent connective tissue arterioles.
Unlike the paraganglionic tissue found in the carotid body the cells in the
thorax did not appear to have a profuse capillary blood supply. There was,
however, a close cellular-neural relationship. The cells, 10-15 microm in
diameter, were oval or rounded in appearance and possessed a central nucleus and 
clear cytoplasm. No evidence was found that these cells possessed a 'companion'
cell reminiscent of the arrangement of type 1 and type 2 cells in the carotid
body. In conclusion, we found evidence of presumed paraganglionic tissue in the
APR of the marmoset which, however, did not show the characteristic histological 
features of the aortic body chemoreceptors that have been described in some
non-primate mammals. A survey of the mediastina of other non-human primates is
required to establish whether this finding is atypical for these animals.

DOI: 10.1590/s0100-879x2002000400005 
PMID: 11960192  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

