

3085. J Comp Neurol. 2002 Apr 8;445(3):238-55.

Comparison of the basal ganglia in rats, marmosets, macaques, baboons, and
humans: volume and neuronal number for the output, internal relay, and striatal
modulating nuclei.

Hardman CD(1), Henderson JM, Finkelstein DI, Horne MK, Paxinos G, Halliday GM.

Author information: 
(1)Prince of Wales Medical Research Institute, Randwick, NSW 2031 Australia.
craig.hardman@med.monash.edu.au

This study compares the basal ganglia of rats, marmosets, macaques, baboons, and 
humans. It uses established protocols to estimate the volume and number of
neurons within the output nuclei (internal globus pallidus, IGP; and
nondopaminergic substantia nigra, SNND), two internal relay and modulating nuclei
(subthalamic nucleus, STh; and external globus pallidus, EGP), and a modulator of
the striatum (dopaminergic substantia nigra, SND). Nuclear boundaries were
defined by using immunohistochemistry for striatal afferents. Total numbers of
Nissl-stained and parvalbumin-immunoreactive neurons were calculated by using the
fractionator technique. Comparisons between species were standardized relative to
brain mass (rats < marmosets < macaques < baboons < humans). The EGP consistently
had more neurons relative to the IGP, STh, and SND, which had similar neuronal
numbers within each species. The SNND had proportionally more neurons in rats
than in primates (especially humans). The distribution of SND neurons varied
substantially between rats and primates (very few ventrally located neurons in
rats) with humans containing fewer SND neurons than other primates. The reduction
in SND neurons in humans suggests less dopaminergic regulation of the basal
ganglia system compared with other species. The consistency in the number of IGP 
neurons across all species, combined with the reduction in SNND neurons in
humans, suggests a greater emphasis on output pathways through the IGP and that
there are proportionally more STh and EGP neurons in humans.

Copyright 2002 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.10165 
PMID: 11920704  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

