

3089. Eur J Neurosci. 2002 Feb;15(3):507-16.

Crossed unilateral lesions of temporal lobe structures and cholinergic cell
bodies impair visual conditional and object discrimination learning in monkeys.

Barefoot HC(1), Baker HF, Ridley RM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, Downing Street, Cambridge CB2 3EB, UK.

Monkeys with excitotoxic lesions of the CA1/subiculum region in the right
hemisphere and with immunotoxic lesions of the cholinergic cells of the diagonal 
band in the left hemisphere were impaired on a visual conditional task. In this
task, correct choice of one of two objects depends on which of two background
fields both objects are presented against, irrespective of the spatial positions 
of the objects. They were not impaired on simple object or shape discrimination
tasks. The pattern of impairments is the same as that seen after bilateral
excitotoxic lesions of CA1/subiculum, implying that the diagonal band lesion
disables the ipsilateral CA1/subiculum. It also argues that CA1/subiculum,
sustained by its cholinergic input, is necessary for some forms of nonspatial
conditional learning. Addition of an inferotemporal (IT) cortical ablation to the
left hemisphere did not affect simple visual discrimination learning, although
all the monkeys then failed to learn a new visual conditional task. This
demonstrates that intact IT cortex in only one hemisphere is sufficient to
sustain simple visual discrimination learning but implies that the cholinergic
input and the inferotemporal cortical input to the hippocampus both contribute to
visual conditional learning. The subsequent addition of an immunotoxic lesion of 
the basal nucleus of Meynert in the right hemisphere resulted in an additional
impairment on a difficult shape discrimination. This argues that it is the
cholinergic projection to the inferotemporal cortex, rather than to the rest of
the cortex, which contributes to visual discrimination learning and memory.

DOI: 10.1046/j.0953-816x.2001.01888.x 
PMID: 11876778  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

