

309. Reproduction. 2020 Aug;160(2):259-268. doi: 10.1530/REP-20-0100.

A translational cellular model for the study of peritubular cells of the testis.

Schmid N(1), Missel A(1), Petkov S(2)(3), Stöckl JB(4), Flenkenthaler F(4),
Arnold GJ(4), Fröhlich T(4), Behr R(2)(3), Mayerhofer A(1).

Author information: 
(1)LMU München, Biomedical Center (BMC), Anatomy III - Cell Biology, Martinsried,
Germany.
(2)Platform Degenerative Diseases, German Primate Center, Göttingen, Germany.
(3)DZHK (German Center for Cardiovascular Research), Partner Site Göttingen,
Göttingen, Germany.
(4)Laboratory for Functional Genome Analysis LAFUGA, Gene Center, LMU München,
München, Germany.

Testicular peritubular cells (TPCs) are smooth muscle-like cells, which form a
compartment surrounding the seminiferous tubules. Previous studies employing
isolated human testicular peritubular cells (HTPCs) indicated that their roles in
the testis go beyond sperm transport and include paracrine and immunological
contributions. Peritubular cells from a non-human primate (MKTPCs), the common
marmoset monkey, Callithrix jacchus, share a high degree of homology with HTPCs. 
However, like their human counterparts these cells age in vitro and replicative
senescence limits in-depth functional or mechanistic studies. Therefore, a stable
cellular model was established. MKTPCs of a young adult animal were immortalized 
by piggyBac transposition of human telomerase (hTERT), that is, without the
expression of viral oncogenes. Immortalized MKTPCs (iMKTPCs) grew without
discernable changes for more than 50 passages. An initial characterization
revealed typical genes expressed by peritubular cells (androgen receptor (AR),
smooth-muscle actin (ACTA2), calponin (CNN1)). A proteome analysis of the primary
MKTPCs and the derived immortalized cell line confirmed that the cells almost
completely retained their phenotype. To test whether they respond in a similar
way as HTPCs, iMKTPCs were challenged with forskolin (FSK) and ATP. As HTPCs,
they showed increased expression level of the StAR protein (StAR) after FSK
stimulation, indicating steroidogenic capacity. ATP increased the expression of
pro-inflammatory factors (e.g. IL1B; CCL7), as it is the case in HTPCs. Finally, 
we confirmed that iMKTPCs can efficiently be transfected. Therefore, they
represent a highly relevant translational model, which allows mechanistic studies
for further exploration of the roles of testicular peritubular cells.

DOI: 10.1530/REP-20-0100 
PMID: 32449695  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

