

3090. Biol Reprod. 2002 Mar;66(3):802-12.

Hemochorial placentation in the primate: expression of vascular endothelial
growth factor, angiopoietins, and their receptors throughout pregnancy.

Wulff C(1), Wilson H, Dickson SE, Wiegand SJ, Fraser HM.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council, Human Reproductive Sciences Unit, Edinburgh EH3 9ET,
United Kingdom. christine-wulff@onlinehome.de

Vascular development and its transformation are necessary for successful
hemochorial placentation, and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF),
angiopoietins, and their receptors may be involved in the molecular regulation of
this process. To determine the potential role of these putative regulators in a
widely studied primate, the common marmoset, we investigated their mRNA
expression and protein location in the placenta throughout pregnancy using in
situ hybridization, Northern blot analysis, and immunocytochemistry. VEGF was
localized in decidual and cytotrophoblast cells, and its highest expression was
found in the maternal decidua. The Flt receptor was exclusively detected in the
syncytial trophoblast with increasing expression in placentae from 10 wk to term.
Soluble Flt (sFlt) was also detectable by Northern blot analysis. KDR receptor
expression was restricted to mesenchymal cells during early placentation and to
the fetoplacental vasculature during later placentation. KDR expression increased
throughout pregnancy. Angiopoietin-1 (Ang-1) was localized in the syncytial
trophoblast, being highly expressed in the second half of gestation. Ang-2 mRNA
localized exclusively to maternal endothelial cells, and was highly expressed in 
10-wk placentae. The Tie-2 receptor was found in cytotrophoblast cells and in
fetal and maternal vessels. High Tie-2 levels were detected in the wall of
chorion vessels at 14-wk, 17-wk, and term placentae. These results suggest that
the processes of trophoblast invasion, maternal vascular transformation, and
fetoplacental vascular differentiation and development are regulated by the
specific actions of angiogenic ligand-receptor pairs. Specifically, 1) VEGF/Flt
and Ang-1/Tie-2 may promote trophoblast growth, 2) VEGF/KDR and Ang-1/Tie-2 may
support fetoplacental vascular development and stabilization, 3) sFlt may balance
VEGF actions, and 4) Ang-2/Tie-2 may remodel the maternal vasculature.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod66.3.802 
PMID: 11870089  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

