

3095. Acta Neuropathol. 2002 Jan;103(1):48-58.

Amyloid-beta deposits in the cerebral cortex of the aged common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus): incidence and chemical composition.

Geula C(1), Nagykery N, Wu CK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Harvard Medical School and Beth Israel Deaconess
Medical Center, Boston, MA 02215, USA. cgeula@caregroup.harvard.edu

The incidence, distribution and chemical composition of amyloid-beta (A beta)
peptide-positive deposits were investigated in the lower primate species common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). No A beta deposits were observed in the brains of 
7 marmosets below 7 years of age. In 15 marmosets above 7 years, 60% displayed
cortical A beta-immunoreactive plaques, 80% had A beta deposited in intracortical
vessels and 87% displayed A beta deposits in meningeal vessels. The cerebral
cortex of the oldest animal (15 years) contained a substantial density of
deposits. A beta-immunoreactive plaques were found predominantly in association
cortical zones followed by a lower density in paralimbic cortical areas. Deposits
within vessels were most frequent in occipital cortex. A beta40 was found
primarily in vascular deposits, while A beta42 was present in plaques.
Approximately 20% of plaques and most vascular deposits displayed thioflavin S
staining, indicative of the presence of fibrillar A beta. Varying proportions of 
A beta deposits contained acetylcholinesterase or butyrylcholinesterase
activities and apolipoprotein E and alpha1-antichymotrypsin immunoreactivity. A
few plaques contained immunoreactivity for amyloid precursor protein in swollen
neurites. However, no abnormally phosphorylated tau immunoreactivity was present 
in these neurites. Survival analysis in a colony of marmosets indicated that only
6% of animals can be expected to survive beyond 7 years of age. These results
indicate that the aged marmoset brain displays A beta deposits with a
distribution and chemical composition similar to those found in the human. These 
similarities suggest that the aged marmoset may be a useful lower primate model
for the study of the pathological effects of A beta. However, the relatively
small number of animals which can be expected to reach old age severely limits
the utility of this species as a model of A beta deposition.

DOI: 10.1007/s004010100429 
PMID: 11837747  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

