

3103. Am J Primatol. 2002 Jan;56(1):27-42.

Variation in circulating and excreted estradiol associated with testicular
activity in male marmosets.

Nunes S(1), Brown C, French JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska-Omaha, Nebraska, Omaha
68182-0274, USA.

Concentrations of estradiol (E2) are high in the urine of male marmosets, and
links between E2 and paternal behavior have been proposed in black tufted-ear
marmosets, Callithrix kuhlii. However, it is not clear whether urinary E2 in male
marmosets: 1) represents production of E2 associated with testicular activity, 2)
is associated with adrenal steroid production, or 3) merely reflects peripheral
conversion of T to E2 prior to excretion. We tested the hypothesis that urinary
E2 in male marmosets represents estrogen production-associated activity in the
hypothalamus-pituitary-gonad (HPG) axis. We treated adult male marmosets with
gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH), and used saline-treated males as controls.
We collected blood and urine samples from males before and after treatment, and
assayed them for testosterone (T), estradiol (E2), and cortisol (CORT). Treatment
with GnRH increased circulating T and E2, and prevented decreases in levels of
urinary T and E2. Moreover, changes in plasma and urinary E2 after treatment were
positively correlated with post-treatment changes in T. Thus, our data are
consistent with both plasma and urinary E2 in male marmosets increasing as a
result of testicular stimulation. However, treatment with GnRH did not affect
plasma or urinary CORT concentrations of males, suggesting that the E2 excreted
by males is not of adrenal origin. We also compared urinary T, E2, and CORT
levels between intact and castrated male common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).
Urinary concentrations of T and E2, but not CORT, were significantly lower in
castrated than in intact males, further suggesting that E2 in male marmosets
varies with testicular activity.

Copyright 2002 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.1061 
PMID: 11793411  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

