

3104. J Comp Neurol. 2002 Feb 4;443(2):168-82.

Cortical and thalamic connections of the parietal ventral somatosensory area in
marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus).

Qi HX(1), Lyon DC, Kaas JH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tennessee 37203,
USA.

Microelectrode mapping methods were used to define the parietal ventral
somatosensory area (PV) on the upper bank of the lateral sulcus in five marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus). In the same animals, neuroanatomical tracers were placed
into electrophysiologically identified sites in PV and/or the second
somatosensory area (S2). Foci of anterograde and retrograde label were related to
electrophysiological maps of cortical areas and cortical and thalamic
architecture. The results lead to the following conclusions: (1) Multiunit
recordings from cortex on the upper bank of the lateral sulcus demonstrate that
PV is somatotopically organized, with the face representation adjoining area 3b
and the hindlimb and tail representations away from this border in cortex deep on
the upper bank of the lateral sulcus. The forelimb representation is caudal in PV
adjacent to the S2 forelimb representation. The body surface representation in PV
approximates a mirror image of that in S2; (2) Areas PV and S2 are less
myelinated and have less cytochrome oxidase enzyme activity than area 3b; (3) The
ventroposterior inferior nucleus (VPI) of the thalamus provides the major
somatosensory projections to PV. PV is reciprocally connected with VPI and
anterior pulvinar; (4) PV has ipsilateral cortical connections with areas 3a, 3b,
1, and M1 and higher order somatosensory fields, and at least most of these
connections are somatotopically matched; and (5) Callosal connections of PV are
with S2 and PV of the other cerebral hemisphere. These results further establish 
PV as one of at least four somatosensory areas of the lateral sulcus of primates.

Copyright 2002 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.10113 
PMID: 11793354  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

