

3105. J Endocrinol. 2002 Jan;172(1):21-30.

Development and validation of a new monoclonal antibody to mammalian aromatase.

Turner KJ(1), Macpherson S, Millar MR, McNeilly AS, Williams K, Cranfield M,
Groome NP, Sharpe RM, Fraser HM, Saunders PT.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Human Reproductive Sciences Unit, 37 Chalmers Street, Edinburgh EH3 9ET,
UK.

The biosynthesis of oestrogens from androgens is catalysed by the aromatase
complex, an essential component of which is the aromatase cytochrome P450 (P450
arom) protein. Expression of a functional P450 arom is essential for normal
fertility in males and females and the sequence of the protein is highly
conserved. We have raised a new monoclonal antibody against a conserved peptide
and validated it on fixed tissue sections of the rat, common marmoset (Callthrix 
jacchus) and human. The monoclonal antibody was used successfully for Western
analysis and specifically reacted with a 55 kDa protein in microsomal extracts.
On sections of ovaries in all three species, expression in follicles was specific
to the mural granulosa cells of antral follicles and was present in corpora
lutea. In the human and marmoset, staining of luteal cells was markedly
heterogeneous and did not appear to vary consistently with the stage of the
cycle. The intensity of immunostaining was elevated in corpora lutea from
pregnant rats and following human chorionic gonadotropin rescue in the human. In 
the testis, the highest levels of expression were observed in the Leydig cells
within the interstitium. In adult rat and marmoset, and possibly also in the
human, some P450 arom was associated with the cytoplasm surrounding elongate
spermatids but other germ cells were immunonegative. In conclusion, a new
monoclonal antibody specific for P450 arom recognises the protein in rodent,
primate and human. Its ability to work on fixed tissue sections will facilitate
identification of individual cells expressing P450 arom within complex tissues.

DOI: 10.1677/joe.0.1720021 
PMID: 11786371  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

