

3109. J Neurosci. 2002 Jan 1;22(1):338-49.

Extraclassical receptive field properties of parvocellular, magnocellular, and
koniocellular cells in the primate lateral geniculate nucleus.

Solomon SG(1), White AJ, Martin PR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Institute for Biomedical Research, The University
of Sydney, New South Wales 2006, Australia.

Descriptions of receptive fields at subcortical levels of the visual system have 
mostly considered only the classical receptive field (CRF). A suppressive
extraclassical receptive field (ECRF) has been demonstrated in relay cells within
the primate lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN), but the quantitative properties and
specific influence of the ECRF on the distinct magnocellular (MC), koniocellular 
(KC), and parvocellular (PC) pathways are not known. Here we quantified the
effect of ECRF stimulation on visually responsive cells in the LGN of a diurnal
New World primate, the marmoset. We show that for all cells, visually evoked
responses are reduced by stimulation of the ECRF. The magnitude of the
suppression is greatest for MC cells and smallest for PC cells. The effect of
ECRF stimulation on KC cells is variable but always suppressive. We refer to
these effects as extraclassical inhibition (ECI). The contrast-response
relationship of the ECI parallels that of CRF-induced excitation for each cell
class: for MC cells, ECI contrast threshold is close to 10% and the ECI saturates
at 50% contrast, but the contrast dependence of ECI on PC cells is more linear.
The ECI also contributes to contrast-dependent changes in spatial summation: on
average for all LGN cells the radius of the excitatory spatial summation field
(measured from aperture-tuning curves) at low contrast is 1.31 times that at high
contrast. No consistent effects of orientation on ECI were seen. The data suggest
that the suppressive component of the ECRF seen in cortical neurons could
primarily be inherited from subcortical input streams.


PMCID: PMC6757604
PMID: 11756517  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

