

311. J Comp Neurol. 2021 Feb;529(2):281-295. doi: 10.1002/cne.24946. Epub 2020 Jun 1.

Multimodal cross-registration and quantification of metric distortions in
marmoset whole brain histology using diffeomorphic mappings.

Lee BC(1)(2), Lin MK(3), Fu Y(4), Hata J(5), Miller MI(1)(2), Mitra PP(3).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Imaging Science, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland,
USA.
(2)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore,
Maryland, USA.
(3)Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, Cold Spring Harbor, New York, USA.
(4)Shanghai Jiaotong University, Shanghai, China.
(5)RIKEN Center for Brain Science, Wako, Japan.

Whole brain neuroanatomy using tera-voxel light-microscopic data sets is of much 
current interest. A fundamental problem in this field is the mapping of
individual brain data sets to a reference space. Previous work has not rigorously
quantified in-vivo to ex-vivo distortions in brain geometry from tissue
processing. Further, existing approaches focus on registering unimodal volumetric
data; however, given the increasing interest in the marmoset model for
neuroscience research and the importance of addressing individual brain
architecture variations, new algorithms are necessary to cross-register
multimodal data sets including MRIs and multiple histological series. Here we
present a computational approach for same-subject multimodal MRI-guided
reconstruction of a series of consecutive histological sections, jointly with
diffeomorphic mapping to a reference atlas. We quantify the scale change during
different stages of brain histological processing using the Jacobian determinant 
of the diffeomorphic transformations involved. By mapping the final image stacks 
to the ex-vivo post-fixation MRI, we show that (a) tape-transfer assisted
histological sections can be reassembled accurately into 3D volumes with a local 
scale change of 2.0 ± 0.4% per axis dimension; in contrast, (b) tissue
perfusion/fixation as assessed by mapping the in-vivo MRIs to the ex-vivo post
fixation MRIs shows a larger median absolute scale change of 6.9 ± 2.1% per axis 
dimension. This is the first systematic quantification of local metric
distortions associated with whole-brain histological processing, and we expect
that the results will generalize to other species. These local scale changes will
be important for computing local properties to create reference brain maps.

© 2020 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.24946 
PMCID: PMC7666050
PMID: 32406083  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

