

3131. Reproduction. 2001 Sep;122(3):419-29.

Comparison of androgen receptor and oestrogen receptor beta immunoexpression in
the testes of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) from birth to adulthood:
low androgen receptor immunoexpression in Sertoli cells during the neonatal
increase in testosterone concentrations.

McKinnell C(1), Saunders PT, Fraser HM, Kelnar CJ, Kivlin C, Morris KD, Sharpe
RM.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Human Reproductive Sciences Unit, Centre for Reproductive Biology, 37
Chalmers Street, Edinburgh EH3 9ET, UK. c.mckinnell@hrsu.mrc.ac.uk

The aims of this study were: (i) to investigate the cellular immunoexpression of 
androgen receptor and oestrogen receptor beta in the testes of the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) during neonatal life compared with their expression
at later ages; (ii) to establish whether neonatal marmoset Sertoli cells are
targets for androgens or oestrogens or both; and (iii) to investigate the
relationship between neonatal plasma testosterone concentrations and androgen
receptor immunoexpression by abolishing the neonatal testosterone surge with a
potent GnRH antagonist. Androgen receptor and oestrogen receptor beta
immunoexpression were evaluated in neonatal animals aged 1-4 days, 4 weeks and 6 
weeks, and compared with immunoexpression in animals aged 18-22 weeks (early
infancy), 35 weeks (late infancy), 58-62 weeks (late pubertal) and > 100 weeks
(adult). Immunoexpression of androgen receptor in the reproductive tract was also
evaluated at each age. Sertoli cell immunoexpression of androgen receptor was
weak or absent in neonatal animals, but increased substantially in infant
animals, reaching adult levels by the end of infancy. In contrast,
immunoexpression of androgen receptor during the neonatal period was strong in
testicular interstitial cells and very strong in epithelial cell nuclei
throughout the reproductive tract, and did not change greatly with age in these
cells or tissues. Similarly, immunoexpression of oestrogen receptor beta was
prominent in many Sertoli cells and in the germ cells of neonatal animals, and
was relatively constant throughout life. Weak immunoexpression of androgen
receptor in neonatal Sertoli cells was associated with high plasma testosterone
concentrations (2.7-5.5 ng ml(-1)), whereas strong Sertoli cell immunoexpression 
was associated with baseline (approximately 0.12 ng ml(-1)) testosterone
concentrations in infant animals and with > 10 ng ml(-1) in late pubertal and
adult animals. Immunoexpression of androgen receptor and oestrogen receptor beta 
was also evaluated in co-twin males aged 4 and 35 weeks, after treatment from
birth to 4 weeks or from week 25 to week 35, respectively, with either vehicle or
with GnRH antagonist at a dose known to suppress the neonatal testosterone surge 
completely. Only GnRH antagonist treatment during weeks 25-35 reduced androgen
receptor immunoexpression, whereas immunoexpression of oestrogen receptor beta
was unaffected by treatment during either period. On the basis of these findings 
it is suggested that: (i) neonatal marmoset Sertoli cells may be targets
primarily for oestrogens rather than androgens; (ii) androgen receptor expression
in the testes of neonatal and infant marmosets is not regulated in a
straightforward way by testosterone; and (iii) high neonatal concentrations of
plasma testosterone are not absolutely necessary for expression of androgen
receptor in marmoset testes at this time.

DOI: 10.1530/rep.0.1220419 
PMID: 11597306  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

