

3137. J Neurosci. 2001 Oct 1;21(19):7770-80.

The role of the primate amygdala in conditioned reinforcement.

Parkinson JA(1), Crofts HS, McGuigan M, Tomic DL, Everitt BJ, Roberts AC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 3DY, United
Kingdom. jap22@cam.ac.uk

Conditioned reinforcement refers to the capacity of a conditioned stimulus to
support instrumental behavior by acquiring affective properties of the primary
reinforcer with which it is associated. Conditioned reinforcers maintain behavior
over protracted periods of time in the absence of, and potentially in conflict
with, primary reinforcers and as such may play a fundamental role in complex
social behavior. A relatively large body of evidence supports the view that the
amygdala (and in particular the basolateral area) contributes to conditioned
reinforcement by maintaining a representation of the affective value of
conditioned stimuli. However, a recent study in primates (Malkova et al., 1997), 
using a second-order visual discrimination task, suggests that the amygdala is
not critical for the conditioned reinforcement process. In the present study,
excitotoxic lesions of the amygdala in a new world primate, the common marmoset, 
resulted in a progressive impairment in responding under a second-order schedule 
of food reinforcement. In addition, the responding of amygdala-lesioned animals
was insensitive to the omission of the conditioned reinforcer, unlike that of
control animals, for which responding was markedly reduced. In contrast, lesioned
animals were unimpaired when responding on a progression of fixed-ratio schedules
of primary reinforcement. These data confirm that the amygdala is critical for
the conditioned reinforcement process in primates, and taken together with other 
recent work in monkeys, these results suggest that the contribution of the
amygdala is to provide the affective value of specific reinforcers as accessed by
associated conditioned stimuli.


PMCID: PMC6762910
PMID: 11567067  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

