

3139. Cereb Cortex. 2001 Sep;11(9):849-67.

Area 3a: topographic organization and cortical connections in marmoset monkeys.

Huffman KJ(1), Krubitzer L.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Neuroscience and Department of Psychology, University of
California, Davis 95616, USA.

The functional organization of area 3a, a cortical field proposed to be involved 
in somato-motor-vestibular integration, has never been described for any primate.
In the present investigation, the topographic organization and connections of
area 3a were examined in marmosets using electrophysiological recording and
anatomical tracing techniques. Multi-unit neuronal activity was recorded at a
number of closely spaced sites; receptive fields (RFs) for neurons were
determined, and the optimal stimulus was identified. In all cases, neurons in
area 3a responded to the stimulation of deep receptors on the contralateral body.
The representation of the body in area 3a was from the toes and foot, to the
hindlimb, trunk, forelimb, hand and face in a mediolateral progression. In all
cases electrophysiological results were related to myeloarchitecture, and the map
in area 3a was found to be coextensive with a strip of lightly to moderately
myelinated cortex just rostral to the darkly myelinated 3b. To examine the
cortical connections of area 3a, injections of anatomical tracers were made into 
electrophysiologically identified body part representations. Area 3a has dense
intrinsic connections and receives substantial inputs from the primary motor
cortex (M1), the supplementary motor area (SMA), areas 1 and 2, the second
somatosensory area (S2), and areas in posterior parietal cortex (PP). The
connections of area 3a indicate that integration of cortical representations of
body parts occurs both within area 3a and between area 3a and other somatosensory
and motor areas. In addition, there are differential patterns of interconnections
between behaviorally relevant body part representations of area 3a, such as the
forelimb, compared to other body part representations (hindlimb/ trunk),
especially with 'higher order' cortical fields. This suggests that 3a may be an
important component in a network that generates a common frame of reference for
hand and eye coordinated reaching tasks.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/11.9.849 
PMID: 11532890  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

