

314. J Comp Psychol. 2020 May 11. doi: 10.1037/com0000226. [Epub ahead of print]

Comparative assessment of behaviorally derived personality structures in
golden-handed tamarins (Saguinus midas), cotton-top tamarins (Saguinus oedipus), 
and common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Masilkova M(1), Weiss A(2), Šlipogor V(3), Konečná M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Zoology.
(2)Department of Psychology.
(3)Department of Behavioral and Cognitive Biology.

One way to address questions about the origins and adaptive significance of
personality dimensions is by comparing the personality structures of closely
related species that differ in their socioecological circumstances. For the
present study, we compared the personalities of captive golden-handed tamarins
(Saguinus midas; N = 28), cotton-top tamarins (Saguinus oedipus; N = 20), and
common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus; N = 17). All 3 species are New World
monkeys of the family Callitrichidae. They thus share reproductive and behavioral
characteristics but differ some in terms of their diet, habitat, and social
organization. We expected that personality structures of closely related tamarin 
species would overlap more, both in terms of number of dimensions and their
content, than either would overlap with the personality structure of common
marmosets. We assessed personality using behavioral observations and compared the
personality structures by means of cross-species correlations and fuzzy set
analyses. Principal component analyses identified components that we labeled
Agreeableness, Assertiveness, and Extraversion in golden-handed tamarins and
common marmosets and components labeled Confidence and Extraversion in cotton-top
tamarins. The greater personality similarities of the two phylogenetically more
distant species suggest that differences in social organization, and in both
habitat diversity and complexity, contributed to the evolution of personality.
However, we also found that behaviors clustered in similar ways in the two
tamarin species, suggesting that phylogenetic relatedness and genus-specific
socioecological characteristics, such as the degree of reproductive competition, 
shaped personality structure in this primate family. (PsycInfo Database Record
(c) 2020 APA, all rights reserved).

DOI: 10.1037/com0000226 
PMID: 32391706 

