

3151. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2001 Aug 14;98(17):9636-41. Epub 2001 Aug 7.

A novel mammalian receptor for the evolutionarily conserved type II GnRH.

Millar R(1), Lowe S, Conklin D, Pawson A, Maudsley S, Troskie B, Ott T, Millar M,
Lincoln G, Sellar R, Faurholm B, Scobie G, Kuestner R, Terasawa E, Katz A.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council Human Reproductive Sciences Unit, Edinburgh EH3 9ET, 
Scotland. r.millar@hrsu.mrc.ac.uk

Mammalian gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH I:
pGlu-His-Trp-Ser-Tyr-Gly-Leu-Arg-Pro-Gly-NH2) stimulates pituitary gonadotropin
secretion, which in turn stimulates the gonads. Whereas a hypothalamic form of
GnRH of variable structure (designated type I) had been shown to regulate
reproduction through a cognate type I receptor, it has recently become evident
that most vertebrates have one or two other forms of GnRH. One of these,
designated type II GnRH (GnRH II: pGlu-His-Ser-His-Gly-Trp-Tyr-Pro-Gly-NH2), is
conserved from fish to man and is widely distributed in the brain, suggesting
important neuromodulatory functions such as regulating K+ channels and
stimulating sexual arousal. We now report the cloning of a type II GnRH receptor 
from marmoset cDNA. The receptor has only 41% identity with the type I receptor
and, unlike the type I receptor, has a carboxyl-terminal tail. The receptor is
highly selective for GnRH II. As with the type I receptor, it couples to
G(alpha)q/11 and also activates extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK1/2)
but differs in activating p38 mitogen activated protein (MAP) kinase. The type II
receptor is more widely distributed than the type I receptor and is expressed
throughout the brain, including areas associated with sexual arousal, and in
diverse non-neural and reproductive tissues, suggesting a variety of functions.
Surprisingly, the type II receptor is expressed in the majority of gonadotropes. 
The presence of two GnRH receptors in gonadotropes, together with the differences
in their signaling, suggests different roles in gonadotrope functioning.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.141048498 
PMCID: PMC55504
PMID: 11493674  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

