

3161. J Comp Neurol. 2001 Jul 2;435(3):291-310.

Thalamo-cortical connections of areas 3a and M1 in marmoset monkeys.

Huffman KJ(1), Krubitzer L.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Neuroscience and Department of Psychology, University of
California, Davis, Davis, California 95616, USA.

The present investigation is part of a broader effort to examine cortical areas
that contribute to manual dexterity, reaching, and grasping. In this study we
examine the thalamic connections of electrophysiologically defined regions in
area 3a and architectonically defined primary motor cortex (M1). Our studies
demonstrate that area 3a receives input from nuclei associated with the
somatosensory system: the superior, inferior, and lateral divisions of the
ventral posterior complex (VPs, VPi, and VPl, respectively). Surprisingly, area
3a receives the majority of its input from thalamic nuclei associated with the
motor system, posterior division of the ventral lateral nucleus of the thalamus
(VL), the mediodorsal nucleus (MD), and intralaminar nuclei including the central
lateral nucleus (CL) and the centre median nucleus (CM). In addition, sparse but 
consistent projections to area 3a are from the anterior pulvinar (Pla).
Projections from the thalamus to the cortex immediately rostral to area 3a, in
the architectonically defined M1, are predominantly from VL, VA, CL, and MD.
There is a conspicuous absence of inputs from the nuclei associated with
processing somatic inputs (VP complex). Our results indicate that area 3a is much
like a motor area, in part because of its substantial connections with motor
nuclei of the thalamus and motor areas of the neocortex (Huffman et al. [2000]
Soc. Neurosci. Abstr. 25:1116). The indirect input from the cerebellum and basal 
ganglia via the ventral lateral nucleus of the thalamus supports its role in
proprioception. Furthermore, the presence of input from somatosensory thalamic
nuclei suggests that it plays an important role in somatosensory and motor
integration.

Copyright 2001 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.1031 
PMID: 11406813  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

