

3164. Eur J Haematol. 2001 Apr;66(4):272-80.

Haematopoietic progenitor cells from the common marmoset as targets of gene
transduction by retroviral and adenoviral vectors.

Hibino H(1), Tani K, Sugiyama H, Suzuki S, Wu MS, Izawa K, Hase H, Nakazaki Y,
Tanabe T, Ooi J, Izeki T, Tojo A, Saitoh I, Tanioka Y, Asano S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Hematology/Oncology, Institute of Medical Science, The
University of Tokyo, Central Institute for Experimental Animals Laboratories
Inc., Kawasaki, Kanagawa, Japan.

To establish a new non-human primate model for human cytokine and gene therapy,
we characterized lymphocytes and haematopoietic progenitor cells of the small New
World monkey, the common marmoset. We first assessed the reactions of marmoset
bone marrow (BM) and peripheral blood (PB) cells to mouse anti-human monoclonal
antibodies (mAbs) for the purpose of isolating marmoset lymphocytes and
haematopoietic progenitor cells. Both cell fractions stained with CD4 and CD8
mAbs were identified as lymphocytes by cell proliferation assay and morphological
examination. Myeloid-specific mAbs such as CD14 and CD33 did not react with
marmoset BM and PB cells. No available CD34 and c-kit mAbs could be used to
purify the marmoset haematopoietic progenitor cells. Furthermore, we studied the 
in vitro transduction of the bacterial beta-galactosidase (LacZ) gene into CFU-GM
derived from marmoset BM using retroviral and adenoviral vectors. The
transduction efficiency was increased by using a mixed culture system consisting 
of marmoset BM stromal cells and retroviral producer cells. It was also possible 
to transduce LacZ gene into marmoset haematopoietic progenitor cells with
adenoviral vectors as well as retroviral vectors. The percentage of adenovirally 
transduced LacZ-positive clusters was 15% at day 4 (multiplicity of
infection=200), but only 1-2% at day 14. The differential use of viral vector
systems is to be recommended in targeting different diseases. Our results
suggested that marmoset BM progenitor cells were available to examine the
transduction efficiency of various viral vectors in vitro.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1600-0609.2001.066004272.x 
PMID: 11380607  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

