

3165. J Physiol. 2001 Jun 1;533(Pt 2):519-35.

Spatial properties of koniocellular cells in the lateral geniculate nucleus of
the marmoset Callithrix jacchus.

White AJ(1), Solomon SG, Martin PR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Institute for Biomedical Research, University of 
Sydney, NSW 2006, Australia.

1. The receptive field dimensions, contrast sensitivity and linearity of spatial 
summation of koniocellular (KC), parvocellular (PC) and magnocellular (MC) cells 
in the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) of 11 adult marmosets were measured using
achromatic sinusoidal gratings. 2. The receptive field centre diameter of cells
in each (PC, KC and MC) class increases with distance from the fovea. There is
substantial overlap in centre size between the three cell classes at any
eccentricity, but the PC cells have, on average, the smallest centres and the KC 
cells have the largest. Some PC and KC cells did not respond at all to the
grating stimulus. 3. The contrast sensitivity of the receptive field centre
mechanism in KC cells decreases in proportion to the centre area. A similar trend
was seen for the surround mechanism. These characteristics are common to PC and
MC cells, suggesting that they originate at an early stage of visual processing
in the retina. 4. The KC cells showed, in general, lower peak evoked discharge
rates than PC or MC cells. The spontaneous discharge rate of KC cells was lower
than that of PC cells and similar to that of MC cells. 5. The majority of cells
in all divisions of the LGN show linear spatial summation. A few cells did show
non-linear spatial summation; these cells were predominantly located in the MC
and ventral KC layers. 6. The ventral KC layers below and between the MC layers
contain cells with larger and more transiently responding receptive fields than
cells in the more dorsal KC layers. 7. We conclude that many of the
contrast-dependent spatial properties of cells in the marmoset LGN are common to 
PC, MC and KC cells. The main difference between KC cells and the other two
classes is that there is more variability in their response properties, and they 
are less responsive to high spatial frequencies.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1469-7793.2001.0519a.x 
PMCID: PMC2278639
PMID: 11389209  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

