

3166. J Neurophysiol. 2001 Jun;85(6):2364-80.

Neural representations of temporally asymmetric stimuli in the auditory cortex of
awake primates.

Lu T(1), Liang L, Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.

The representation of rapid acoustic transients by the auditory cortex is a
fundamental issue that is still unresolved. Auditory cortical neurons have been
shown to be limited in their stimulus-synchronized responses, yet the perceptual 
performances of humans and animals in discriminating temporal variations in
complex sounds are better than what existing neurophysiological data would
predict. This study investigated the neural representation of temporally
asymmetric stimuli in the primary auditory cortex of awake marmoset monkeys. The 
stimuli, ramped and damped sinusoids, were systematically manipulated (by means
of half-life of the exponential envelope) within a cortical neuron's presumed
temporal integration window. The main findings of this study are as follows: 1)
temporal asymmetry in ramped and damped sinusoids with a short period (25 ms) was
clearly reflected by average discharge rate but not necessarily by temporal
discharge patterns of auditory cortical neurons. There was considerable response 
specificity to these stimuli such that some neurons were strongly responsive to a
ramped sinusoid but almost completely unresponsive to its damped counterpart or
vice versa. Of 181 neurons studied, 140 (77%) showed significant response
asymmetry in at least one of the tested half-life values of the exponential
envelope. Forty-six neurons showed significant response asymmetry over all
half-lives tested. Sustained firing, commonly observed under awake conditions,
contributed to greater response asymmetry than that of onset responses in many
neurons. 2) A greater proportion of the neurons (32/46) that exhibited
significant overall response asymmetry showed stronger responses to the ramped
sinusoids than to the damped sinusoids, possibly contributing to the difference
in the perceived loudness between these two classes of sounds. 3) The asymmetry
preference of a neuron to ramped or damped sinusoids did not appear to be
correlated with its characteristic frequency or minimum response latency,
suggesting that this is a general phenomenon that exists across populations of
cortical neurons. Moreover, the intensity of the stimuli did not have significant
effects on the measure of the asymmetry preference based on discharge rate. 4) A 
population measure of response preference, based on discharge rate, of cortical
neurons to the temporally asymmetric stimuli was qualitatively similar to the
performance of human listeners in discriminating ramped versus damped sinusoids
at different half-life values. These findings suggest that rapid acoustic
transients embedded in complex sounds can be represented by discharge rates of
cortical neurons instead of or in the absence of stimulus-synchronized
discharges.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.2001.85.6.2364 
PMID: 11387383  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

