

3170. Eur J Neurosci. 2001 May;13(9):1797-808.

Dissociable contributions of the orbitofrontal and lateral prefrontal cortex of
the marmoset to performance on a detour reaching task.

Wallis JD(1), Dias R, Robbins TW, Roberts AC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, University of Cambridge, Downing Street, Cambridge, CB2
3DY, UK.

To gain insight into the nature and neural specificity of the relationship
between simple problem solving, inhibitory control and prefrontal cortex,
comparison of the effects of excitotoxic lesions of the orbitofrontal and lateral
prefrontal cortex were examined on the performance of common marmosets on a
detour reaching task. Monkeys were required to inhibit reaching directly for food
reward in a transparent box and instead make a detour reach around to the side of
the box either having had (i) no prior experience on the task (experiment 1) or
(ii) previous experience in reaching around the sides of an opaque box
(experiment 2). Whilst monkeys with orbitofrontal lesions had difficulty in
inhibiting direct reaches to visible food reward (experiment 1), they could
resist this prepotent response tendency following extensive prior experience of
detour reaching with an opaque box (experiment 2). In marked contrast, monkeys
with lateral prefrontal lesions exhibited no difficulty in inhibiting reaching to
visible food reward or acquiring detour reaching per se (experiment 1). However, 
having been given the opportunity to acquire an efficient detour reaching
strategy to hidden food reward these lateral prefrontal lesioned monkeys were
impaired at transferring this strategy to the new context in which the food
reward was made visible (experiment 2). This double dissociation between the
effects of orbitofrontal and lateral prefrontal lesions on detour reaching
provides evidence for a clear distinction in the level of control over responding
exerted by the orbitofrontal and lateral prefrontal cortex, consistent with
hierarchical ordering of response control processes within prefrontal cortex.

DOI: 10.1046/j.0953-816x.2001.01546.x 
PMID: 11359531  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

