

3172. J Mol Endocrinol. 2001 Jun;26(3):249-58.

Molecular evolution of GH in primates: characterisation of the GH genes from slow
loris and marmoset defines an episode of rapid evolutionary change.

Wallis OC(1), Zhang YP, Wallis M.

Author information: 
(1)Biochemistry Laboratory, School of Biological Sciences and Centre for the
Study of Evolution, University of Sussex, Brighton BN1 9QG, UK.

Pituitary growth hormone (GH), like several other protein hormones, shows an
unusual episodic pattern of molecular evolution in which sustained bursts of
rapid change are imposed on long periods of very slow evolution (near-stasis). A 
marked period of rapid change occurred in the evolution of GH in primates or a
primate ancestor, and gave rise to the species specificity that is characteristic
of human GH. We have defined more precisely the position of this burst by cloning
and sequencing the GH genes for a prosimian, the slow loris (Nycticebus pygmaeus)
and a New World monkey, marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). Slow loris GH is very
similar in sequence to pig GH, demonstrating that the period of rapid change
occurred during primate evolution, after the separation of lines leading to
prosimians and higher primates. The putative marmoset GH is similar in sequence
to human GH, demonstrating that the accelerated evolution occurred before
divergence of New World monkeys and Old World monkeys/apes. The burst of change
was confined largely to coding sequence for mature GH, and is not marked in other
components of the gene sequence including signal peptide, 5' upstream region and 
introns. A number of factors support the idea that this episode of rapid change
was due to positive adaptive selection. Thus (1) there is no apparent loss of
function of GH in man compared with non-primates, (2) after the episode of rapid 
change the rate of evolution fell towards the slow basal level that is seen for
most mammalian GHs, (3) the accelerated rate of substitution for the exons of the
GH gene significantly exceeds that for introns, and (4) the amino acids
contributing to the hydrophobic core of GH are strongly conserved when higher
primate and other GH sequences are compared, and for coding sequences other than 
that coding for hydrophobic core residues the rate of substitution for
non-synonymous sites (K(A)) is significantly greater than that for synonymous
sites (K(S)). In slow loris, as in most non-primate mammals, there is no evidence
for duplication of the GH gene, but in marmoset, as in rhesus monkey and man, the
putative GH gene is one of a cluster of closely related genes.

DOI: 10.1677/jme.0.0260249 
PMID: 11357061  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

