

3175. J Neurophysiol. 2001 May;85(5):1823-35.

Hierarchical equivalence of somatosensory areas I and II for tactile processing
in the cerebral cortex of the marmoset monkey.

Zhang HQ(1), Zachariah MK, Coleman GT, Rowe MJ.

Author information: 
(1)School of Physiology and Pharmacology, The University of New South Wales,
Sydney, NSW 2052, Australia.

Responsiveness of the first somatosensory area (SI) of the cerebral cortex was
investigated in the marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus) in association with
cooling-induced, reversible inactivation of the second somatosensory area, SII.
The aim was to determine whether SI responsiveness to peripheral tactile
stimulation depends on SII and therefore whether SI and SII in the marmoset
occupy hierarchically equivalent positions in a parallel organizational scheme
for thalamocortical tactile processing as appears to be the case in nonprimate
mammals. Inactivation of SII was achieved when the temperature over SII was
lowered to < or =12 degrees C, as indicated by abolition of the SII-evoked
potentials generated by brief tap stimuli to the hand or foot, and by abolition
of tactile responses in single SII neurons located at the margin beneath the
block. The effect of SII inactivation on SI-evoked potentials was examined in 16 
experiments by simultaneous recording of the SI- and SII-evoked potentials.
SI-evoked potentials were never abolished and remained unaffected in 11 cases. In
three experiments there was a small reduction in amplitude and inconsistent
effects in the remaining two. Responsiveness to controlled tactile stimuli was
examined quantitatively in 31 individual SI neurons of different functional
classes before, during, and after the inactivation of SII. Tactile responsiveness
in individual SI neurons was never abolished by SII inactivation, remaining
unchanged in 20 neurons (65%) while undergoing some reduction in the remaining 11
SI neurons (35%). This reduction of tactile responsiveness in one-third of SI
neurons is most likely attributable to a removal of a facilitatory influence
emanating from SII, based on the observation that background activity of the
affected neurons was also reduced. Furthermore, phase locking of SI responses to 
vibrotactile stimulation was unchanged when SII was inactivated. The retention of
responsiveness in SI neurons when SII was inactivated by cooling in the marmoset 
demonstrates that tactile inputs can reach SI without traversing an indirect,
serially organized path through SII. The present results, together with our
previous observations that responsiveness in the majority of SII neurons survived
SI inactivation, demonstrate that there is a parallel organization of the SI and 
SII areas for tactile processing in the marmoset monkey and that SI and SII
occupy hierarchically equivalent positions in a parallel processing network.
There is therefore no longer justification for the view that there are
fundamental differences in the organization of thalamocortical tactile processing
for SI and SII between simian primates, in general, and other mammals.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.2001.85.5.1823 
PMID: 11352999  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

