

3176. J Neurophysiol. 2001 May;85(5):1805-22.

Functional characteristics of the parallel SI- and SII-projecting neurons of the 
thalamic ventral posterior nucleus in the marmoset.

Zhang HQ(1), Murray GM, Coleman GT, Turman AB, Zhang SP, Rowe MJ.

Author information: 
(1)School of Physiology and Pharmacology, The University of New South Wales,
Sydney, NSW 2052, Australia.

The functional organization of the primate somatosensory system at
thalamocortical levels has been a matter of controversy, in particular, over the 
extent to which the primary and secondary somatosensory cortical areas, SI and
SII, are organized in parallel or serial neural networks for the processing of
tactile information. This issue was investigated for the marmoset monkey by
recording from 55 single tactile-sensitive neurons in the lateral division of the
ventral posterior nucleus of the thalamus (VPL) with a projection to either SI or
SII, identified with the use of the antidromic collision technique. Neurons
activated from the hand and distal forearm were classified according to their
peripheral source of input and characterized in terms of their functional
capacities to determine whether the direct thalamic input can account for tactile
processing in both SI and SII. Both the SI- and SII-projecting samples contained 
a slowly adapting (SA) class of neurons, sensitive to static skin displacement,
and purely dynamically sensitive tactile neurons that could be subdivided into
two classes. One was most sensitive to high-frequency (> or =100 Hz) cutaneous
vibration whose input appeared to be derived from Pacinian sources, while the
other was sensitive to lower frequency vibration (< or =100 Hz) or trains of
rectangular mechanical pulse stimuli, that appeared to receive its input from
rapidly adapting (RA) afferent fibers presumed to be associated with intradermal 
tactile receptors. There appeared to be no systematic differences in functional
capacities between SI- and SII-projecting neurons of each of these three classes,
based on receptive field characteristics, on the form of stimulus-response
relations, and on measures derived from these relations. These measures included 
threshold and responsiveness values, bandwidths of vibrational sensitivity, and
the capacity for responding to cutaneous vibrotactile stimuli with phase-locked, 
temporally patterned impulse activity. The analysis indicates that low-threshold,
high-acuity tactile information is conveyed directly to both SI and SII from
overlapping regions within the thalamic VP nucleus. This direct confirmation of a
parallel functional projection to both SI and SII in the marmoset is consistent
with our separate studies at the cortical level that demonstrate first, that
tactile responsiveness in SII largely survives the SI inactivation and second,
that SI responsiveness is largely independent of SII. It therefore reinforces the
evidence that SI and SII occupy a hierarchically equivalent network for tactile
processing.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.2001.85.5.1805 
PMID: 11352998  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

