

3179. Physiol Behav. 2001 Apr;72(5):713-20.

Prolactin levels are elevated after infant carrying in parentally inexperienced
common marmosets.

Roberts RL(1), Jenkins KT, Lawler T, Wegner FH, Norcross JL, Bernhards DE, Newman
JD.

Author information: 
(1)Unit on Developmental Neuroethology, Laboratory of Comparative Ethology,
National Institute of Child Health and Human Development, NIH Animal Center, P.O.
Box 529, Poolesville, MD 20837, USA. lr123@nih.gov

Alloparental behavior (parental behavior directed to nondescendant young) is
pervasive among human cultures but rare among other mammals. New World primates
of the family Callitrichidae, including common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus
jacchus), dwell in large families and many family members carry and/or provision 
infants. This study experimentally characterized alloparenting in common
marmosets by measuring infant retrieval and carrying outside of the context of
the family group. Prolactin was measured in samples collected before and after
infant exposure to determine whether elevated prolactin levels were predictive of
alloparental responsiveness. Seventeen nonbreeding, parentally inexperienced,
singly or peer-housed common marmosets (10 females, 7 males, 6-66 months of age) 
were tested repeatedly in an infant retrieval paradigm. Infant retrieval was
shown by 5 out of 17 monkeys (29%) in their first test. The rate of retrieval
increased to 10 monkeys (59%) by the fourth test. No significant differences in
age, sex, or housing condition existed between monkeys that retrieved infants and
those not retrieving. Prolactin concentrations were significantly elevated in
serum obtained after testing only in monkeys that retrieved infants. Prolactin
levels after infant exposure were positively related to carrying duration. A
separate experiment verified that neither prolactin nor cortisol was
significantly elevated in response to prolonged handling. Cortisol levels were
inversely proportional to handling time. Prolactin levels were not significantly 
related to handling time. Our results indicate that alloparental behavior is
expressed at high rates after minimal infant experience, and prolactin levels
rise concomitantly with the expression of alloparental behavior in this species.

DOI: 10.1016/s0031-9384(01)00430-9 
PMID: 11337003  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

