

3189. Pharmacol Biochem Behav. 2001 Feb;68(2):255-62.

Behavioral effects of buspirone in the marmoset employing a predator
confrontation test of fear and anxiety.

Barros M(1), Mello EL, Huston JP, Tomaz C.

Author information: 
(1)Primate Center and Department of Physiological Sciences, Institute of Biology,
University of Brasília, Brazil, CEP 70910-900, DF, Brasília, Brazil.

In order to further validate the recently developed marmoset (Callithrix
penicillata) predator confrontation model of fear and anxiety, we investigated
the behavioral effects of buspirone with this method. The apparatus consisted of 
three parallel arms connected at each end to a perpendicular arm, forming a
figure-eight continuous maze. A taxidermized wild oncilla cat (Felis tigrina) was
positioned facing a corner of the parallel arms, alternating between the left or 
right side of the maze among animals tested. All subjects were first submitted to
seven 30-min maze habituation trials (HTs) in the absence of the predator, and
then to five randomly assigned treatment trials (TTs) in the presence of the
predator: three buspirone sessions (0.1, 0.5 and 1.0 mg/kg), saline and sham
injection controls. Twenty minutes after treatment administration, the animal was
released into the maze and had free access to the apparatus for 30 min. All
trials were taped for later behavioral analysis. Buspirone significantly
decreased the frequency of scent marking, while increasing the time spent in
proximity to the 'predator' stimulus, indicating an anxiolytic effect. Neither
locomotor activity, exposure to a novel environment, stimulus location and
habituation, nor gender influenced the effects of the drug treatments. These
results further validate this method and demonstrate the potential usefulness of 
this ethologically based paradigm to test anxiety and fear-induced avoidance in
nonhuman primates and its susceptibility to anxiolytic pharmacological
manipulations.

DOI: 10.1016/s0091-3057(00)00447-0 
PMID: 11267630  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

