

3197. J Comp Neurol. 2001 Apr 2;432(2):184-96.

Parkin immunoreactivity in the brain of human and non-human primates: an
immunohistochemical analysis in normal conditions and in Parkinsonian syndromes.

Zarate-Lagunes M(1), Gu WJ, Blanchard V, Francois C, Muriel MP, Mouatt-Prigent A,
Bonici B, Parent A, Hartmann A, Yelnik J, Boehme GA, Pradier L, Moussaoui S,
Faucheux B, Raisman-Vozari R, Agid Y, Brice A, Hirsch EC.

Author information: 
(1)INSERM U 289, Hôpital de la Salpêtrière, 47 Bd. de l'Hôpital, 75013 Paris,
France.

The etiology of Parkinson's disease is unknown, but the gene involved in an
autosomic recessive form of the disease with early onset has recently been
identified. It codes for a protein with an unknown function called parkin. In the
present study we produced a specific polyclonal antiserum against human parkin.
Immunohistochemical analysis showed that parkin is expressed in neuronal
perikarya and processes but also in glial and blood vessels in the primate brain 
(human and monkey). Electron microscopy indicated that parkin immunoreactivity is
mostly located in large cytoplasmic vesicles and at the level of the endoplasmic 
reticulum. Parkin was expressed heterogeneously in various structures of the
brain. It was detectable in the dopaminergic systems at the level of the
perikarya in the mesencephalon but also in the striatum. However, parkin was also
expressed by numerous nondopaminergic neurons. The staining intensity of parkin
was particularly high in the hippocampal formation, the pallidal complex, the red
nucleus, and the cerebellum. Comparison of control subjects with patients with
Parkinson's disease and control animals with
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-intoxicated animals revealed 
a loss of parkin-immunoreactive neurons only in the substantia nigra pars
compacta. Furthermore, the surviving dopaminergic neurons in the parkinsonian
state continued to express parkin at a level similar to that observed in the
control situation. These data indicate that parkin is a widely expressed protein.
Thus, the degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in familial cases of Parkinson's
disease with autosomal recessive transmission cannot be explained solely in terms
of an alteration of this protein.

Copyright 2001 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.1096 
PMID: 11241385  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

