

32. Nat Neurosci. 2022 Jan;25(1):106-115. doi: 10.1038/s41593-021-00969-4. Epub 2021 
Dec 9.

AAV capsid variants with brain-wide transgene expression and decreased liver
targeting after intravenous delivery in mouse and marmoset.

Goertsen D(#)(1), Flytzanis NC(#)(1), Goeden N(#)(1), Chuapoco MR(1), Cummins
A(2), Chen Y(3), Fan Y(3), Zhang Q(4)(5), Sharma J(4)(6)(7)(8), Duan Y(9), Wang
L(3), Feng G(4)(5), Chen Y(3)(10), Ip NY(9)(11)(10), Pickel J(2), Gradinaru
V(12).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Biology and Biological Engineering, California Institute of
Technology, Pasadena, CA, USA.
(2)National Institute of Mental Health, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, 
MD, USA.
(3)Chinese Academy of Sciences Key Laboratory of Brain Connectome and
Manipulation, Shenzhen Key Laboratory of Translational Research for Brain
Diseases, The Brain Cognition and Brain Disease Institute, Shenzhen Institute of 
Advanced Technology, Chinese Academy of Sciences; Shenzhen-Hong Kong Institute of
Brain Science-Shenzhen Fundamental Research Institutions, Shenzhen, China.
(4)McGovern Institute for Brain Research, Department of Brain and Cognitive
Sciences, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, MA, USA.
(5)Stanley Center for Psychiatric Research, Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard,
Cambridge, MA, USA.
(6)Picower Institute of Learning and Memory, Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, Cambridge, MA, USA.
(7)Tan & Yang Center for Autism Research, McGovern Institute of Brain Research,
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, MA, USA.
(8)Athinoula A. Martinos Center for Biomedical Imaging, Department of Radiology, 
Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.
(9)Division of Life Science, State Key Laboratory of Molecular Neuroscience and
Molecular Neuroscience Center, Hong Kong University of Science and Technology,
Clear Water Bay, Kowloon, Hong Kong, China.
(10)Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of Brain Science, Disease and Drug
Development, Shenzhen-Hong Kong Institute of Brain Science, HKUST Shenzhen
Research Institute, Shenzhen, Guangdong, China.
(11)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Hong Kong Science Park, Hong
Kong, China.
(12)Division of Biology and Biological Engineering, California Institute of
Technology, Pasadena, CA, USA. viviana@caltech.edu.
(#)Contributed equally

Genetic intervention is increasingly being explored as a therapeutic option for
debilitating disorders of the central nervous system. The safety and efficacy of 
gene therapies rely upon expressing a transgene in affected cells while
minimizing off-target expression. Here we show organ-specific targeting of
adeno-associated virus (AAV) capsids after intravenous delivery, which we
achieved by employing a Cre-transgenic-based screening platform and sequential
engineering of AAV-PHP.eB between the surface-exposed AA452 and AA460 of VP3.
From this selection, we identified capsid variants that were enriched in the
brain and targeted away from the liver in C57BL/6J mice. This tropism extends to 
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), enabling robust, non-invasive gene delivery to the
marmoset brain after intravenous administration. Notably, the capsids identified 
result in distinct transgene expression profiles within the brain, with one
exhibiting high specificity to neurons. The ability to cross the blood-brain
barrier with neuronal specificity in rodents and non-human primates enables new
avenues for basic research and therapeutic possibilities unattainable with
naturally occurring serotypes.

© 2021. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature America, Inc.

DOI: 10.1038/s41593-021-00969-4 
PMID: 34887588 

