

3209. Eur J Neurosci. 2001 Feb;13(3):597-608.

GDNF reverses priming for dyskinesia in MPTP-treated, L-DOPA-primed common
marmosets.

Iravani MM(1), Costa S, Jackson MJ, Tel BC, Cannizzaro C, Pearce RK, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Research Centre, Guy's, King's and St Thomas' School
of Biomedical Sciences, King's College, London SE1 1UL, UK.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is associated with a progressive loss of dopamine
neurons in the substantia nigra and degeneration of dopaminergic terminals in the
striatum. Although L-DOPA treatment provides the most effective symptomatic
relief for PD it does not prevent the progression of the disease, and its
long-term use is associated with the onset of dyskinesia. In rodent and primate
studies, glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) may prevent 6-OHDA-
or MPTP-induced nigral degeneration and so may be beneficial in the treatment of 
PD. In this study, we investigate the effects of GDNF on the expression of
dyskinesia in L-DOPA-primed MPTP-treated common marmosets, exhibiting dyskinesia.
GDNF or saline was administered by two intraventricular injections, 4 weeks
apart, to MPTP-treated, L-DOPA-treated common marmosets primed to exhibit
dyskinesia. Prior to GDNF or saline administration, all animals displayed marked 
dyskinesia when treated with L-DOPA. GDNF administration produced a significant
improvement in motor disability and, following the second injection of GDNF, a
significant improvement in the locomotor activity was observed. Following the
administration of L-DOPA there was a greater reversal of disability and a
reduction in the intensity of L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia in GDNF-treated animals
compared to saline-treated controls. However, there was no significant difference
in L-DOPA's ability to increase locomotor activity between GDNF-treated and
saline-treated animals. GDNF treatment caused a significant increase in the
number of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons in the substantia nigra, but no
change in [(3)H]mazindol binding to dopamine terminals was found in the striatum 
of GDNF-treated animals compared to saline-treated controls. In GDNF-treated
animals a small but significant reduction in enkephalin mRNA was observed in the 
caudate nucleus but not in the putamen or the nucleus accumbens. Substance P mRNA
expression was equally reduced in the caudate nucleus and the putamen of the
GDNF-treated animals but not in the nucleus accumbens. Intraventricular
administration of GDNF improved MPTP-induced disability and reversed dopamine
cell loss in the substantia nigra. GDNF also diminished L-DOPA-induced
dyskinesia, which may relate to its ability to partly restore nigral dopaminergic
transmission or to modify the activity of striatal output pathways.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1460-9568.2001.01408.x 
PMID: 11168568  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

