

3218. Biol Reprod. 2001 Feb;64(2):527-36.

Autoradiographic localization of specific binding of meiosis-activating sterol to
cumulus-oocyte complexes from marmoset, cow, and mouse.

Faerge I(1), Grøndahl C, Ottesen JL, Hyttel P.

Author information: 
(1)Pharmacological Research 3, Pharmacology, Health Care Discovery, Novo Nordisk 
A/S, Novo Nordisk Park, G 8.1.39, Må, 2760 Måløv, Denmark. ingf@novo.dk

The sterol, 4,4-dimethyl-5alpha-cholesta-8,14,24-trien-3beta-ol (FF-MAS),
isolated from human follicular fluid, can induce resumption of meiosis in denuded
and cumulus-enclosed mouse oocytes inhibited by hypoxanthine, IBMX, or dibutyric 
cyclic adenosine monophosphate. In this study the distribution of FF-MAS binding 
sites in denuded oocytes and in cumulus-oocyte complexes (COCs) was studied using
light microscopic (LM) and transmission electron microscopic (TEM)
autoradiography in marmoset, cow, and mouse oocytes. Denuded (n = 39) and
cumulus-enclosed (n = 28) marmoset, cow, and mouse oocytes were cultured in the
presence of [3H]FF-MAS with and without excess of unlabeled FF-MAS, respectively.
In denuded oocytes LM autoradiography demonstrated specific binding to the
oolemma and zona pellucida and, to some extent, the cytoplasm. In the nucleus, no
specific binding of [3H]FF-MAS was demonstrated. In some COCs the labeling was
dispersed throughout the zona pellucida, the oolemma, and the cytoplasm as well
as the cumulus cells; whereas in others, only the outer part of the cumulus cells
were labeled. TEM autoradiograms of denuded cow oocytes (n = 6) demonstrated that
specific [3H]FF-MAS binding was closely related to the oolemma and that a low
level of [3H]FF-MAS binding to cumulus cell remnants was present. In conclusion, 
specific binding of FF-MAS is predominant at the oolemma of denuded oocytes,
suggesting the existence of a plasma membrane-associated molecule with affinity
for FF-MAS (i.e., a putative FF-MAS receptor).

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod64.2.527 
PMID: 11159355  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

