

3230. Anim Behav. 2000 Dec;60(6):857-865.

Variation in steroid hormones associated with infant care behaviour and
experience in male marmosets (Callithrix kuhlii).

Nunes S(1), Fite JE, French JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology and Nebraska Behavioral Biology Group, University of 
Nebraska, Omaha

We describe temporal patterns of change in paternal behaviour and urinary
concentrations of the steroid hormones testosterone (T) and oestradiol (E(2)) in 
male black tufted-ear marmosets, Callithrix kuhlii, relative to the birth of
their young, and test predictions of the hypotheses that (1) high levels of T are
incompatible with paternal care and (2) levels of T and E(2)vary with a father's 
prior experience in his family group. After young were born, levels of urinary T 
and E(2)remained near prepartum concentrations and rates at which fathers carried
infants were below peak levels until the approximate time that postpartum mating 
ordinarily occurs, suggesting a possible trade-off between readiness to mate and 
paternal behaviour in C. kuhlii. Infant-carrying behaviour of fathers occurred at
its highest rate 3-4 weeks after parturition and coincided with significant
declines in urinary levels of T and E(2), providing preliminary support for the
hypothesis that these hormones are antagonistic to paternal behaviour. Urinary T 
and E(2)declined among fathers regardless of whether their young survived to
weaning or died at birth, indicating that variation in these hormones after
parturition occurs even in the absence of continued stimuli from infants. When
adjusted for declines ordinarily associated with aging, urinary T tended to be
lower among fathers with a great deal of prior experience caring for young
compared with fathers having little or no experience, suggesting that either
experience affects T levels of fathers, or that T levels influence fathers'
chances of successfully rearing infants. Overall, our results suggest that in
male C. kuhlii, T, and possibly E(2), play an important role in balancing the
expression of paternal care with that of other reproductive behaviours. Copyright
2000 The Association for the Study of Animal Behaviour.

DOI: 10.1006/anbe.2000.1524 
PMID: 11124885 

