

324. J Neurosci. 2020 May 20;40(21):4158-4171. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.2749-19.2020.
Epub 2020 Apr 15.

Dissociation of Unit Activity and Gamma Oscillations during Vocalization in
Primate Auditory Cortex.

Tsunada J(1)(2), Eliades SJ(3).

Author information: 
(1)Auditory and Communication Systems Laboratory, Department of
Otorhinolaryngology, Head and Neck Surgery, University of Pennsylvania Perelman
School of Medicine, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 19104.
(2)Department of Veterinary Medicine, Faculty of Agriculture, Iwate University,
Morioka, Iwate Japan, 020-8550.
(3)Auditory and Communication Systems Laboratory, Department of
Otorhinolaryngology, Head and Neck Surgery, University of Pennsylvania Perelman
School of Medicine, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 19104
seliades@pennmedicine.upenn.edu.

Vocal production is a sensory-motor process in which auditory self-monitoring is 
used to ensure accurate communication. During vocal production, the auditory
cortex of both humans and animals is suppressed, a phenomenon that plays an
important role in self-monitoring and vocal motor control. However, the
underlying neural mechanisms of this vocalization-induced suppression are
unknown. γ-band oscillations (>25 Hz) have been implicated a variety of cortical 
functions and are thought to arise from activity of local inhibitory
interneurons, but have not been studied during vocal production. We therefore
examined γ-band activity in the auditory cortex of vocalizing marmoset monkeys,
of either sex, and found that γ responses increased during vocal production. This
increase in γ contrasts with simultaneously recorded suppression of single-unit
and multiunit responses. Recorded vocal γ oscillations exhibited two separable
components: a vocalization-specific nonsynchronized ("induced") response
correlating with vocal suppression, and a synchronized ("evoked") response that
was also present during passive sound playback. These results provide evidence
for the role of cortical γ oscillations during inhibitory processing.
Furthermore, the two distinct components of the γ response suggest possible
mechanisms for vocalization-induced suppression, and may correspond to the
sensory-motor integration of top-down and bottom-up inputs to the auditory cortex
during vocal production.SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT Vocal communication is important
to both humans and animals. In order to ensure accurate information transmission,
we must monitor our own vocal output. Surprisingly, spiking activity in the
auditory cortex is suppressed during vocal production yet maintains sensitivity
to the sound of our own voice ("feedback"). The mechanisms of this
vocalization-induced suppression are unknown. Here we show that auditory cortical
γ oscillations, which reflect interneuron activity, are actually increased during
vocal production, the opposite response of that seen in spiking units. We discuss
these results with proposed functions of γ activity during inhibitory sensory
processing and coordination of different brain regions, suggesting a role in
sensory-motor integration.

Copyright © 2020 Tsunada and Eliades.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.2749-19.2020 
PMCID: PMC7244193
PMID: 32295815  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

