

3243. J Comp Neurol. 2000 Nov 27;427(4):485-507.

Comparative study on the distribution patterns of P2X(1)-P2X(6) receptor
immunoreactivity in the brainstem of the rat and the common marmoset (Callithrix 
jacchus): association with catecholamine cell groups.

Yao ST(1), Barden JA, Finkelstein DI, Bennett MR, Lawrence AJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Monash University, Clayton, Victoria 3168,
Australia.

The present study investigated the topographical distribution of P2X(1)-P2X(6)
receptor subtypes in the rat and common marmoset hindbrain by
immunohistochemistry. In addition, double-labeling immunofluorescence was used to
determine the extent of colocalization between catecholamine cell groups and the 
various P2X receptors. The data demonstrate a widespread distribution pattern for
all six P2X receptors throughout both the rat hindbrain and the marmoset
hindbrain, although distinctions between species, brain nuclei, and P2X receptor 
subtypes exist. In rat, dense staining for the P2X receptors was found in the
nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS), medial vestibular nucleus, and medial and
lateral parabrachial nuclei. Moderate staining was observed in the hypoglossal
nucleus, cuneate nucleus, inferior olive, prepositus hypoglossi, rostral
ventrolateral medulla (RVLM), and locus coeruleus. Staining was also observed in 
the gracile nucleus, the mesencephalic trigeminal nucleus, and the central
pontine gray. In marmoset, prominent P2X receptor-like immunoreactivity occurred 
in the NTS, medial cuneate nucleus, prepositus hypoglossi, and medial vestibular 
nucleus. Moderate staining was observed in the area postrema, dorsal motor
nucleus of the vagus, lateral cuneate, lateral reticular, spinal trigeminal
nucleus, RVLM, and inferior olive. Immunofluorescent double labeling of tyrosine 
hydroxylase (TH)-containing cells revealed that all subtypes of P2X receptors
show some degree of colocalization with TH. The highest proportion of TH and P2X 
receptor double labeling was in the A5 region (with the P2X(2) subunit), whereas 
the lowest proportion of double-labeled cells occurred in the C2 region of the
NTS for the P2X(5) subunit. These findings support a role for extracellular
adenosine 5'-triphosphate in fast synaptic neurotransmission within the
brainstem.

Copyright 2000 Wiley-Liss, Inc.


PMID: 11056460  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

