

325. Anim Sci J. 2020 Jan-Dec;91(1):e13366. doi: 10.1111/asj.13366.

Comparison of the fecal microbiota of two monogastric herbivorous and five
omnivorous mammals.

Kobayashi R(1), Nagaoka K(2), Nishimura N(3), Koike S(4), Takahashi E(5), Niimi
K(5), Murase H(6), Kinjo T(7), Tsukahara T(8), Inoue R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Animal Science, Kyoto Prefectural University, Kyoto, Japan.
(2)Laboratory of Veterinary Physiology, Tokyo University of Agriculture and
Technology, Fuchu, Japan.
(3)College of Agriculture, Academic Institute, Shizuoka University, Shizuoka,
Japan.
(4)Research Faculty of Agriculture, Hokkaido University, Sapporo, Japan.
(5)Research Resources Division, RIKEN Center for Brain Science, Wako, Japan.
(6)Japan Racing Association, Hidaka Training and Research Center, Urakawa-cho,
Japan.
(7)Okinawa Zoo and Museum, Okinawa Zoo Animal Hospital, Okinawa, Japan.
(8)Kyoto Institute of Nutrition and Pathology, Ujitawara-cho, Japan.

Fecal microbiota in seven different monogastric animal species, elephant, horse, 
human, marmoset, mouse, pig and, rat were compared using the same analytical
protocol of 16S rRNA metagenome. Fecal microbiota in herbivores showed higher
alpha diversity than omnivores except for pigs. Additionally, principal
coordinate analysis based on weighted UniFrac distance demonstrated that
herbivores and pigs clustered together, whereas other animal species were
separately aggregated. In view of butyrate- and lactate-producing bacteria,
predominant genera were different depending on animal species. For example, the
abundance of Faecalibacterium, a known butyrate producer, was 8.02% ± 3.22% in
human while it was less than 1% in other animal species. Additionally,
Bifidobacterium was a predominant lactate producer in human and marmoset, while
it was rarely detected in other omnivores. The abundance of lactate-producing
bacteria in herbivores was notably lower than omnivores. On the other hand,
herbivores as well as pig possess Fibrobacter, a cellulolytic bacterium. This
study demonstrated that fecal microbiota in herbivorous animals is similar,
sharing some common features such as higher alpha diversity and higher abundance 
of cellulolytic bacterium. On the other hand, omnivorous animals seem to possess 
unique fecal microbiota. It is of interest that pigs, although omnivore, have
fecal microbiota showing some common features with herbivores.

© 2020 The Authors. Animal Science Journal published by John Wiley & Sons
Australia, Ltd on behalf of Japanese Society of Animal Science.

DOI: 10.1111/asj.13366 
PMCID: PMC7216987
PMID: 32285557  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

