

3270. Exp Brain Res. 2000 Jul;133(2):178-88.

Antiparkinsonian and neuroprotective effects of modafinil in the mptp-treated
common marmoset.

Jenner P(1), Zeng BY, Smith LA, Pearce RK, Tel B, Chancharme L, Moachon G.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Research Centre, Division of Pharmacology and
Therapeutics, Guy's, King's and St Thomas' School of Biomedical Sciences, King's 
College, London, UK. div.pharm@kcl.ac.uk

The psychostimulant drug, modafinil, protects rodents against
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) toxicity, striatal ischemia
and partial transection of the nigro-striatal pathway. We now report on the
ability of modafinil to reverse motor disability in MPTP-treated common marmosets
and to prevent MPTP-induced nigral cell death in this species. In the initial
experiments, adult common marmosets were treated with MPTP to produce stable
motor deficits. The subsequent administration of modafinil (10, 30 or 100
mg/kg/day, p.o.) produced a dose-dependent reversal of motor disability. In a
subsequent experiment, normal common marmosets were concurrently treated with 10,
30 or 100 mg/kg of modafinil once daily by gavage during acute MPTP
administration (daily for 5 days), continuing for 2 weeks after the last dose of 
MPTP. Modafinil dose-dependently prevented the decline in motor activity normally
produced by MPTP treatment. MPTP treatment caused a 76% loss of nigral
tyrosine-hydroxylase-immunoreactive cells in placebo-treated animals, and this
was dose-dependently prevented by modafinil. At the highest dose (100 mg/kg/day) 
of modafinil, there was no significant loss of
tyrosine-hydroxylase-immunoreactive cells in the substantia nigra compared with
normal animals. MPTP treatment also reduced striatal dopamine uptake sites by
95%, as measured by specific [3H]-mazindol binding, compared with normal
controls. Modafinil treatment dose-dependently reduced the loss of specific
[3H]-mazindol binding. Behavioural and morphological evidence in the present
study indicate a potential antiparkinsonian and neuroprotective role for
modafinil, which may form a new pharmacological approach to the treatment of
Parkinson's disease.

DOI: 10.1007/s002210000370 
PMID: 10968218  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

