

3292. Chem Biol. 2000 Jul;7(7):493-504.

Structure-based drug design: the discovery of novel nonpeptide orally active
inhibitors of human renin.

Rahuel J(1), Rasetti V, Maibaum J, Rüeger H, Göschke R, Cohen NC, Stutz S, Cumin 
F, Fuhrer W, Wood JM, Grütter MG.

Author information: 
(1)Core Technology Area, Novartis Pharma AG, Metabolic and Cardiovascular
Diseases, Basle, Switzerland.

BACKGROUND: The aspartic proteinase renin plays an important physiological role
in the regulation of blood pressure. It catalyses the first step in the
conversion of angiotensinogen to the hormone angiotensin II. In the past, potent 
peptide inhibitors of renin have been developed, but none of these compounds has 
made it to the end of clinical trials. Our primary aim was to develop novel
nonpeptide inhibitors. Based on the available structural information concerning
renin-substrate interactions, we synthesized inhibitors in which the peptide
portion was replaced by lipophilic moieties that interact with the large
hydrophobic S1/S3-binding pocket in renin.
RESULTS: Crystal structure analysis of renin-inhibitor complexes combined with
computational methods were employed in the medicinal-chemistry optimisation
process. Structure analysis revealed that the newly designed inhibitors bind as
predicted to the S1/S3 pocket. In addition, however, these compounds interact
with a hitherto unrecognised large, distinct, sub-pocket of the enzyme that
extends from the S3-binding site towards the hydrophobic core of the enzyme.
Binding to this S3(sp) sub-pocket was essential for high binding affinity. This
unprecedented binding mode guided the drug-design process in which the mostly
hydrophobic interactions within subsite S3(sp) were optimised.
CONCLUSIONS: Our design approach led to compounds with high in vitro affinity and
specificity for renin, favourable bioavailability and excellent oral efficacy in 
lowering blood pressure in primates. These renin inhibitors are therefore
potential therapeutic agents for the treatment of hypertension and related
cardiovascular diseases.

DOI: 10.1016/s1074-5521(00)00134-4 
PMID: 10903938  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

