

3293. Clin Neuropharmacol. 2000 May-Jun;23(3):133-42.

Transdermal administration of piribedil reverses MPTP-induced motor deficits in
the common marmoset.

Smith LA(1), Jackson MG, Bonhomme C, Chezaubernard C, Pearce RK, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Diseases Research Centre, Guy's, King's and St. Thomas'
School of Biomedical Sciences, King's College, London, UK.

The ability of transdermal administration of the dopamine D2/D3 agonist piribedil
(1-[3,4-methylenedioxybenzyl)]-4-[(2-pyrimidinyl)]piperazine) to reverse
hypokinesia and other motor deficits observed in MPTP-treated common marmosets
was investigated. Piribedil (2.5-10.0 mg/animal), applied directly to the skin of
the abdomen as a paste, produced a long-lasting and concentration-dependent
reversal of motor deficits. The antiparkinsonian actions of piribedil occurred
within 10 minutes of drug administration and lasted as long as 10 hours.
Transdermally applied piribedil produced a pattern of locomotor activity
characteristic of normal motor behavior in this species. Symptoms of nausea
(marked excessive salivation, retching, and/or vomiting) were not observed after 
transdermal application of piribedil. Additionally, pretreatment with the
peripheral dopamine antagonist domperidone enhanced the antiparkinsonian effects 
of piribedil. Application to the skin of monolayer or bilayer patches impregnated
with piribedil also produced a marked increase in locomotor activity and reversal
of motor deficits. After application of various patch fractions (whole, one-half,
or one-fourth), the increase in locomotor activity and reversal of disability
correlated well with the surface area of skin covered. Measurement of serum
levels of piribedil after single application of bilayer patches showed a positive
relationship between drug levels and antiparkinsonian activity. Repeated daily
application of piribedil bilayer patches for 5 days to MPTP-treated common
marmosets primed to show dyskinesia by previous exposure to L-Dopa produced
antiparkinsonian activity accompanied by dyskinetic movements. Transdermal
administration of dopamine agonists such as piribedil may provide a useful means 
of producing a long-lasting reversal of motor deficits in Parkinson's disease
while avoiding acute adverse effects such as nausea.

DOI: 10.1097/00002826-200005000-00002 
PMID: 10895396  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

