

3297. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2000 Jul;41(8):2043-9.

Form deprivation myopia in mature common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Troilo D(1), Nickla DL, Wildsoet CF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Science and Disease, New England College of
Optometry, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA. troilod@ne-optometry.edu

PURPOSE: Experimental manipulations of visual experience are known to affect the 
growth of the eye and the development of refractive state in a variety of species
including human and nonhuman primates. For example, it is well established that
visual form deprivation causes elongation of the eye and myopia. The effects of
such manipulations have generally been examined in neonatal or juvenile animals. 
Whether adolescent common marmosets (a new world primate) are susceptible to form
deprivation myopia was studied.
METHODS: Five adolescent marmosets were used in this study. Monocular form
deprivation was induced by lid closure for 12 to 20 weeks, starting between 299
and 315 days of age. The effects of deprivation were assessed with keratometry,
A-scan ultrasonography, and cycloplegic refractions. Both eyes (treated and
fellow control) were measured before lid-closure, at the end of the deprivation
period, and several times over the following 8 to 12 weeks.
RESULTS: Adolescent marmosets are susceptible to visual form deprivation myopia. 
The experimental eyes showed significant axial elongation and myopia relative to 
the fellow control eyes. These changes were smaller, however, than those observed
in younger eyes deprived for comparable periods. Like juvenile animals, the
adolescent marmosets did not show recovery from myopia over the period monitored.
CONCLUSIONS: The period for susceptibility to form deprivation myopia in the
marmoset monkey extends beyond the early developmental period when ocular growth 
is rapid and emmetropization normally takes place. Visual form deprivation in
adolescent marmosets with adult-sized eyes results in increased ocular growth and
myopia. These data suggest that visual factors may influence the growth and
refractive development of the human eye after puberty and may be involved in
late-onset myopia.


PMID: 10892841  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

