

3298. Exp Anim. 2000 Apr;49(2):91-6.

Partial hepatectomy of marmoset: clinical and pathological effects and utility in
microsomal enzyme analysis.

Kurata Y(1), Makinodan F, Matsumoto J, Toyota N, Tanaka K.

Author information: 
(1)Mitsubishi Chemical Safety Institute Ltd., Ibaraki, Japan.

Liver biopsy based on a partial hepatectomy technique (shearing) was performed in
10 common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). This is a preliminary study to evaluate
the effects of drugs on hepatic microsomal enzymes: cytochrome P-450 and T4
uridine diphosphate glucuronyl transferase (T4-UDPGT), by comparing
post-treatment values with pre-treatment values individually with a limited
number of animals. The effects of the biopsy on clinical findings and liver
pathology were evaluated during the first 5 post-surgical weeks. Although the
plasma aspartate aminotransferase (AST) activities tended to decrease from 1 to 4
weeks post-surgery, no abnormality was noted in clinical sign, body weight, the
hematocrit value or other blood chemical values. At necropsy, adhesion of the
sheared site of the liver to the parietal peritoneum or the small intestine was
evident in 2 of the 4 marmosets. Microscopic examination revealed focal fibrosis 
in the liver, but it was localized around the sheared site. Based on the above
results, it was concluded that liver biopsy must be performed more than one month
before administration of the drug to be tested. The biopsy samples and the whole 
liver samples obtained at autopsy were subjected to analysis of microsomal
protein content, cytochrome P-450 content and T4-UDPGT activity. In comparison
with the values from the whole liver samples, those from the biopsy samples
showed no significant difference. Furthermore, there was a significant
correlation rather than difference between matched values. This suggested that
partial hepatectomy is a useful method for obtaining pretreatment values in liver
biochemistry to evaluate the effects of drug-treatment in individual animals.

DOI: 10.1538/expanim.49.91 
PMID: 10889947  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

