

3307. Neuroscience. 2000;98(2):243-51.

Synergistic effects of unilateral immunolesions of the cholinergic projections
from the basal forebrain and contralateral ablations of the inferotemporal cortex
and hippocampus in monkeys.

Barefoot HC(1), Baker HF, Ridley RM.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Comparative Cognition Team, Department of Experimental Psychology, Downing
Street, CB2 3EB, Cambridge, UK.

Monkeys, with unilateral immunotoxic lesions of the basal nucleus of Meynert that
remove cholinergic innervation of the ipsilesional neocortex, and ablations of
the contralateral inferotemporal neocortex, were impaired on retention of visual 
discriminations learnt before surgery and on acquisition of new discriminations. 
This demonstrates that the cholinergic projection from the basal nucleus supports
the functions of its cortical target area. Our previous studies have shown that
the impairment on discrimination performance following bilateral lesions of the
basal nucleus is transient and that bilateral lesions of the diagonal band of
Broca, that remove cholinergic innervation of the hippocampus, are without effect
on these tasks. However, the impairment resulting from bilateral lesions of the
basal nucleus plus the diagonal band, or from bilateral inferotemporal cortex
ablations, is severe and persistent. Bilateral inferotemporal ablations deprive
the hippocampus of much of its visual input by producing a discontinuity in
cortico-cortical transmission, whereas basal nucleus lesions may merely prevent
the modification of visually-derived information in the inferotemporal cortex
without depriving the hippocampus of visual input. In the monkeys with crossed
unilateral basal nucleus plus inferotemporal cortex lesions, the addition of a
diagonal band lesion to the basal nucleus lesion produced an impairment on
retention of visual discriminations and sustained the acquisition impairment.
This confirms the previous finding that the basal nucleus and diagonal band act
synergistically in producing a severe and permanent impairment. Further addition 
of an excitotoxic hippocampal lesion to the hemisphere with the inferotemporal
cortex ablation did not add to the learning impairment. This supports the
suggestion that the inferotemporal cortex ablation has deprived the hippocampus
of its visual input.Overall, these experiments demonstrate that the cholinergic
projections from the basal nucleus and diagonal band participate in the learning 
and memory functions of the temporal lobes.

DOI: 10.1016/s0306-4522(00)00131-7 
PMID: 10854755  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

