

3317. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2000 May;41(6):1249-58.

Choroidal thickness changes during altered eye growth and refractive state in a
primate.

Troilo D(1), Nickla DL, Wildsoet CF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Science and Disease, The New England College of
Optometry, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA. troilod@ne-optometry.edu

PURPOSE: In the chick, compensation for experimentally induced defocus involves
changes in the thickness of the choroid. The choroid thickens in response to
imposed myopic defocus and thins in response to imposed hyperopic defocus. This
study was undertaken to determine whether similar choroidal changes occur in the 
primate eye with induced refractive errors.
METHODS: Thirty-three common marmosets were used. Eyes in 26 monkeys served as
untreated control eyes, and eyes in 7 received 3 weeks of monocular lid suture to
induce changes in eye growth and refractive state. Refractive errors were
measured using refractometry and retinoscopy, and axial ocular dimensions,
including choroidal thickness, were measured using high-frequency A-scan
ultrasonography. Eyes were measured before the lids were sutured and at frequent 
intervals after lid opening.
RESULTS: In the marmoset, choroidal thickness ranges from 88 to 150 microm and
increases significantly during the first year of life. Monocular lid suture
initially results in short, hyperopic eyes that then become elongated and myopic.
In these animals the choroids of both the experimental and the fellow control
eyes also increase in thickness with age but additionally show interocular
differences that vary significantly with the relative changes in vitreous chamber
depth and refraction. In eyes that are shorter and more hyperopic than control
eyes the choroids are thicker, and in eyes that are longer and more myopic than
control eyes the choroids are thinner.
CONCLUSIONS: In marmosets, the thickness of the choroid increases during
postnatal eye growth. Superimposed on this developmental increase in choroidal
thickness there are changes in thickness that are correlated with the induced
changes in eye size. These changes are small (<50 microm) in comparison with
those observed in the chick, contributing to less than a diopter change in
refractive error.


PMID: 10798638  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

