

332. Am J Primatol. 2020 Jun;82(6):e23128. doi: 10.1002/ajp.23128. Epub 2020 Apr 4.

The aging common marmoset's immune system: From junior to senior.

Mietsch M(1)(2), Paqué K(1), Drummer C(3), Stahl-Hennig C(1), Roshani B(1).

Author information: 
(1)Unit of Infection Models, German Primate Center, Goettingen, Germany.
(2)Department of Laboratory Animal Science, German Primate Center, Goettingen,
Germany.
(3)Platform Degenerative Diseases, German Primate Center, Goettingen, Germany.

The social, health, and economic challenges of a steadily increasing aging
population demand the use of appropriate translational animal models to address
questions like healthy aging, vaccination strategies, or potential interventions 
during the aging process. Due to their genetic proximity to humans, especially
nonhuman primates (NHPs) with a relatively short generation period compared to
humans, qualify as excellent animal models for these purposes. The use of common 
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) in gerontology research steadily increased over
the last decades, yet important information about their aging parameters are
still missing. We therefore aimed to characterize their aging immune system by
comprehensive flow cytometric phenotyping of blood immune cells from juvenile,
adult, aging, and geriatric animals. Aged and geriatric animals displayed clear
signs of immunosenescence. A decline in CD4/CD8 ratio, increased expression of
HLA-DR and PD-1, higher frequencies of CD95+ memory cells, alterations in
cytokine secretion, and a decline in the proliferative capacity proved T cell
senescence in aging marmosets. Also, the B cell compartment was affected by
age-related changes: while overall B cell numbers remained stable with advancing 
age, expression of the activation marker CD80 increased and immunoglobulin M
expression decreased. Interestingly, marmoset B cell memory subset distribution
rather mirrored the human situation than that of other NHP. CD21+ CD27- naïve B
cell frequencies decreased while those of CD21- CD27- tissue memory B cells
increased with age. Furthermore, frequencies and numbers of NK cells as part of
the innate immune system declined with advancing age. Thus, the observed
immunological changes in common marmosets over their life span revealed several
similarities to age-related changes in humans and encourages further studies to
strengthen the common marmoset as a potential aging model.

© 2020 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.23128 
PMID: 32246726  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

