

3327. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2000 Apr;85(4):1711-8.

Localization and signaling of the prolactin receptor in the uterus of the common 
marmoset monkey.

Dalrymple A(1), Jabbour HN.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council Reproductive Biology Unit, Center for Reproductive
Biology, Edinburgh, United Kingdom.

This study investigated the expression and signaling pathway of PRL and its
receptor in the non-pregnant uterus of the common marmoset monkey.
Immunohistochemistry localized PRL expression to the stromal compartment of the
endometrium. Expression was minimal during the proliferative phase and was
up-regulated during the mid to late secretory phase of the ovulatory cycle. In
situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry localized expression of the PRL
receptor to the glandular epithelium of the endometrium. Similar to that of PRL, 
PRL receptor expression was minimal during the proliferative phase and was
dramatically up-regulated during the secretory phase. The temporal pattern of PRL
receptor gene expression in the marmoset uterus across the cycle was further
confirmed by ribonuclease protection assay. The roles of Janus kinase-2 (JAK2)
and signal transducer and activator of transcription-1 (STAT1) in the
intracellular signaling pathway of PRL were also assessed in the mid to late
secretory phase. JAK2/STAT1 proteins were localized in the glandular epithelial
compartment, and both proteins were temporally phosphorylated in response to PRL.
Finally, the pattern of expression of the interferon regulatory factor-1 (IRF-1) 
gene and the effect of PRL on transcription of IRF-1 were investigated during the
mid to late secretory phase. IRF-1 expression in the marmoset uterus was encoded 
by a protein of 48 kDa and was localized to the glandular epithelial compartment,
as was observed for the PRL receptor and JAK2/STAT1 proteins. Moreover,
incubation of mid to late secretory uterine tissue with PRL for 1 and 3 h
resulted in 0.4 +/- 0.2- and 2.4 +/-0.5-fold (P < 0.05) inductions of the IRF-1
gene, respectively. These studies confirm the expression of both PRL and its
receptor in the uterus of the marmoset monkey. Expression of both genes is
up-regulated during the mid to late secretory phase of the ovulatory cycle. PRL
function in the marmoset uterus is linked to the JAK/STAT signaling pathway,
leading to the regulation of expression of PRL-responsive genes such as IRF-1.
The site of expression of PRL, PRL receptors, and IRF-1 in the marmoset uterus
suggest that PRL may influence glandular epithelial function and direct gene
transcription in these cells in a paracrine fashion.

DOI: 10.1210/jcem.85.4.6504 
PMID: 10770219  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

