

3328. Gen Comp Endocrinol. 2000 Mar;117(3):427-38.

Comparative aspects of the metabolism and excretion of cortisol in three
individual nonhuman primates.

Bahr NI(1), Palme R, Möhle U, Hodges JK, Heistermann M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Reproductive Biology, Germany Primate Center, Göttingen,
Germany.

A radiometabolism study is described to provide the first comparative data on the
time course, route, and characteristics of excreted [3H]cortisol metabolites in
three nonhuman primates: the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), the
long-tailed macaque (Macacafascicularis), and the chimpanzee (Pan troglodytes). A
low dose (40-100 microCi) of 3H-labeled cortisol was administered intravenously
to one adult male of each species and the excreta collected over a 5-day period
postinjection. The major proportion of radioactivity was excreted in the urine
(>80%). Peak radioactivity in urine was recovered within 5.5 h following
injection in all three species, while in the feces peak levels of radioactivity
were recovered within 26 h postinjection. In all three species, urinary
metabolites were primarily excreted as conjugates (61-87%), whereas the
percentage of conjugated metabolites in feces was 50% or less. The number and
relative abundance of urinary and fecal [3H]cortisol metabolites were determined 
by reverse-phase high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) and
immunoreactivity of the radioactivity peaks was assessed by screening HPLC
fractions with established cortisol, corticosterone, and 11-oxoetiocholanolone
enzyme immunoassays (EIA), the latter being a group-specific assay for measuring 
11,17-dioxoandrostanes. HPLC separation of urinary and fecal extracts revealed
multiple peaks of radioactivity, several of which were common to all three
species. The relative proportion of these peaks, however, differed considerably
among species and between urine and feces. HPLC indicated that native cortisol
was a major urinary excretory product in the marmoset, while comparatively small 
amounts were present in the urine of the macaque and chimpanzee. In contrast, in 
feces, cortisol was only detected in low amounts in the marmoset and was
virtually absent in the macaque and chimpanzee. In all three species, one of the 
major radioactivity peaks showed a retention time comparable to
11-oxoetiocholanolone and high immunoreactivity in the 11-oxoetiocholanolone EIA.
The measurement of urinary- and/or fecal-immunoreactive 11,17-dioxoandrostanes is
therefore implicated for noninvasive assessment of adrenal function in Old World 
monkeys, New World monkeys, and great apes.

DOI: 10.1006/gcen.1999.7431 
PMID: 10764553  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

