

3334. Brain Res. 2000 Apr 7;861(1):45-58.

Motor neurons are rich in non-phosphorylated neurofilaments: cross-species
comparison and alterations in ALS.

Tsang YM(1), Chiong F, Kuznetsov D, Kasarskis E, Geula C.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Neurodegenerative and Aging Research, Department of Medicine,
Harvard Medical School and Section of Gerontology, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical 
Center, Boston, MA 02215, USA.

The localization and distribution of non-phosphorylated neurofilaments (NP-NF) in
the upper and lower motor neurons was investigated in the rat, the common
marmoset, the rhesus monkey and man using the SMI-32 antibody. Within the spinal 
cord of all species studied, the most intense NP-NF immunoreactivity was observed
within the ventral horn alpha-motor neurons. Concurrent staining for the
cholinergic marker choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) demonstrated that virtually
all of the ChAT-positive alpha-motor neurons contain NP-NF immunoreactivity.
Although NP-NF staining was also observed in other neurons within the ventral and
intermediate horns, these neurons were loosely scattered and contained a
considerably lower staining intensity. The only other prominent NP-NF staining in
the spinal cord occurred within the neurons of the dorsal nucleus of Clark and
the intermediolateral cell column. Phosphorylated neurofilament (P-NF)
immunoreactivity was found primarily in neuronal processes. Occasionally, a
solitary motor neuron contained weak P-NF immunoreactivity. Within the brainstem,
neurons in all cranial nerve motor nuclei contained intense NP-NF
immunoreactivity. The distribution and apparent density of NP-NF immunoreactive
neurons in these nuclei was virtually identical to that observed for neurons
immunoreactive for ChAT. NP-NF immunoreactive neurons of relatively lower
intensity were found in many other regions of the brainstem. All of the giant
Betz cells of layer (L) V in the motor cortex contained dark NP-NF
immunoreactivity. Within the spinal cord of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS)
patients, both Nissl and NP-NF staining demonstrated the dramatic loss of
alpha-motor neurons characteristic of this disorder. Some of the remaining motor 
neurons contained intense P-NF immunoreactivity. These observations suggest that 
NP-NF immunoreactivity is a good marker for motor neurons in health and disease
and may be a useful tool for studies of motor neuron degeneration (MND).

DOI: 10.1016/s0006-8993(00)01954-5 
PMID: 10751564  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

