

3335. Toxicol Sci. 2000 Mar;54(1):30-41.

Effects of dietary oltipraz and ethoxyquin on aflatoxin B1 biotransformation in
non-human primates.

Bammler TK(1), Slone DH, Eaton DL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Environmental Health, University of Washington, Seattle 98195,
USA.

Following aflatoxin B1 (AFB) exposure, rats readily develop liver tumors.
However, treatment of rats with a variety of compounds, including the synthetic
dithiolthione oltipraz and the antioxidant ethoxyquin, protects these rodents
from AFB-induced hepatocarcinogenesis. Several epidemiological studies strongly
suggest that AFB is also a causative agent of liver cancer in humans. However,
relatively little is known about the efficacy of cancer chemoprevention in human 
and non-human primates. To this end, we examined the effects of chemopreventive
agents on AFB metabolism in non-human primates. Hepatic aflatoxin B1 metabolism
profiles of macaque (Macaca nemestrina) and marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) monkeys
were determined and compared to humans. Quantitatively, the oxidative metabolism 
of this mycotoxin was similar in the three primate species. In contrast to
macaques, both humans and marmosets lacked AFB-glutathione conjugating activity. 
It was concluded that marmosets resembled human AFB metabolism more closely than 
the macaques, and therefore, marmoset monkeys were chosen for this study. Eleven 
adult male marmosets were randomly assigned to three groups. Animals received the
synthetic dithiolthione oltipraz, the antioxidant ethoxyquin, or vehicle only. In
addition, two single doses of AFB were also administered orally before and after 
animals were treated with aforementioned compounds. Both oltipraz and ethoxyquin 
induced aflatoxin B1-glutathione conjugating activity in the livers of some but
not all marmosets. In addition, 10 microM oltipraz inhibited cytochrome
P450-mediated activation of AFB to the ultimate carcinogenic metabolite,
aflatoxin B1-8,9-epoxide, in vitro, up to 51%. Furthermore, animals treated in
vivo with oltipraz, but not ethoxyquin, exhibited a significant reduction (53%
average) in AFB-DNA adduct formation relative to the control animals (p < 0.05). 
Together, our data suggest that chemoprevention is also effective in primates;
however, most likely to a lesser degree than in rodents.

DOI: 10.1093/toxsci/54.1.30 
PMID: 10746929  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

