

3336. J Biol Chem. 2000 Apr 7;275(14):10648-54.

Characterization of a human angiotensinogen cleaved in its reactive center loop
by a proteolytic activity from Chinese hamster ovary cells.

Célérier J(1), Schmid G, Le Caer JP, Gimenez-Roqueplo AP, Bur D, Friedlein A,
Langen H, Corvol P, Jeunemaitre X.

Author information: 
(1)INSERM U36-Pathologie Vasculaire et Endocrinologie Rénale, Collège de
France-Chaire de Médecine Expérimentale et d'Endocrinologie Rénale 3, rue d'Ulm
75005 Paris, France. jerome.celerier@college-de-france.fr

Angiotensinogen, the renin (E.C. 3.4.23.15) substrate, belongs to the serpins
superfamily and has been classified as a noninhibitory serpin. Using mass
spectroscopy, angiotensinogen purified from Chinese hamster ovary cell
supernatant shows a broad spectrum. The absence of protease inhibitors throughout
the purification leads to an angiotensinogen cleaved within the reactive center
loop. This cleavage does not affect the Ang I generation because kinetic
parameters are similar to the values of the full-length angiotensinogen. Although
cleavage is complete, the cleaved angiotensinogen migrates after deglycosylation 
on SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis as a doublet differing by 4 kDa. To
test whether the circulating angiotensinogen is cleaved in the reactive center
loop, it was purified from a pool of human plasma and was shown to be uncleaved. 
Its migration was obviously slower than of cleaved angiotensinogen but also
consisted of two bands pointing to a so far unexplained residual heterogeneity.
We then compared the heat-induced polymerization of full-length- and reactive
center loop-cleaved angiotensinogens. Both monomers were able to aggregate,
revealing a particular behavior of angiotensinogen distinct from that of reactive
center loop-cleaved serpins. Lacking the three-dimensional structure of
angiotensinogen, we propose and discuss a structural model of the serpin fold
within the renin substrate.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.275.14.10648 
PMID: 10744761  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

