

3350. Behav Brain Res. 2000 Mar;108(2):205-11.

Measuring fear and anxiety in the marmoset (Callithrix penicillata) with a novel 
predator confrontation model: effects of diazepam.

Barros M(1), Boere V, Huston JP, Tomaz C.

Author information: 
(1)Primate Center and Department of Physiological Sciences, Institute of Biology,
University of Brasilia, Brazil, DF.

This report describes a new experimental method for measuring fear and anxiety in
Cerrado marmosets (Callithrix penicillata). In order to test the sensitivity of
the behavioral parameters to an anxiolytic substance, the effects of the
benzodiazepine diazepam on the anxiety measures were examined. The strategy was
to use a naturally occurring stimulus known to elicit anxiety and fear in this
species. A taxidermized predator (the wild cat Felis tigrina) was chosen as the
stimulus to induce anxiety-related behaviors on the basis of a preceding study in
which various stimuli were systematically compared in their effectiviness to
induce fear responses. The apparatus consisted of three parallel arms of equal
dimensions, joining two perpendicular arms at each end, thus comprising a figure 
eight-like or five-arm continuous rectangular maze. The wild-cat was placed
outside of one corner of the maze's outer parallel arms. Each subject was
submitted to six treatments given in random order: three drug sessions (diazepam 
1, 2 and 3 mg/kg, i.m.), saline, sham (injection control), and a control session,
involving neither manipulation nor injection. Subjects were placed into the back 
of the chamber, out of sight of the 'predator', 20 min after a treatment and
given free access to the maze for 30 min. The behavioral repertoire was recorded 
via videocamera. The following behaviors were considered to be possible indices
of emotionality relevant to exposure to the predator in the paradigm used:
scratching, scent marking, exploration, frequency and time spent in each of 13
defined sections of the maze. Administration of diazepam induced a significant
reduction in scratching and an increase in the time spent in the vicinity of the 
'predator', as well as in the frequency of exploratory behaviors, indicative of
an anxiolytic effect. Gender did not influence the effect of treatment. These
results suggest that this new ethologically-based test may be a useful method for
studying anxiety and fear-induced avoidance in non-human primates and for
pre-clinical research on psychoactive drugs.

DOI: 10.1016/s0166-4328(99)00153-9 
PMID: 10701664  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

