

3351. Endocrinology. 2000 Mar;141(3):995-1000.

Suppression of luteal angiogenesis in the primate after neutralization of
vascular endothelial growth factor.

Fraser HM(1), Dickson SE, Lunn SF, Wulff C, Morris KD, Carroll VA, Bicknell R.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council Reproductive Biology Unit, Center for Reproductive
Biology, Edinburgh, United Kingdom. h.fraser@ed-rbu.mrc.ac.uk

Manipulation of angiogenesis may have a profound effect on female reproductive
function, but this has not yet been demonstrated by direct experiment in species 
with ovulatory cycles similar to those in women. To investigate whether
angiogenesis could be inhibited in the primate corpus luteum, and the
consequences of such inhibition on luteal function, marmosets were treated with
an antibody to vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF). Treatment commenced at 
the time of ovulation and was continued for 3 days (early luteal group) or 10
days (midluteal group). Bromodeoxyuridine was used to label proliferating cells, 
being administered 1 h before collecting ovaries from control and treated animals
in the early or midluteal phase. Ovarian sections were stained using an antibody 
to bromodeoxyuridine, and a proliferation index was obtained; endothelial cell
quantification was performed using factor VIII as an endothelial cell marker.
Intense proliferation in the early luteal phase was suppressed by anti-VEGF
treatment. This resulted in blockade of development of the normally extensive
capillary bed, as in the animals treated until the mid-luteal phase the numbers
of endothelial cells were reduced. The hormone-producing cells remained largely
unaltered in the posttreatment corpus luteum, although the presence of lipid
accumulation, and small pockets of cells showing basophilia and nuclear
condensation were observed. Significantly, luteal function, as judged by
secretion of progesterone, was markedly compromised by the treatment, being
reduced by 60% in comparison with controls. It is concluded that VEGF-mediated
angiogenesis is an essential component of luteal function in primates and
therefore has the potential to be regulated.

DOI: 10.1210/endo.141.3.7369 
PMID: 10698175  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

