

3367. J Reprod Fertil. 1999 Sep;117(1):61-70.

Expression of growth factor ligand and receptor genes in preimplantation stage
water buffalo (Bubalus bubalis) embryos and oviduct epithelial cells.

Daliri M(1), Rao KB, Kaur G, Garg S, Patil S, Totey SM.

Author information: 
(1)Embryo Biotechnology Laboratory, National Institute of Immunology, Aruna Asaf 
Ali Marg, New Delhi, India.

The temporal pattern of expression of genes for several growth factor ligands and
receptors was examined in preimplantation water buffalo embryos and oviduct
epithelial cells using RT-PCR. The identity of the resulting PCR products was
confirmed by their expected size, restriction analysis, Southern blot
hybridization and nucleotide sequence analysis. Preimplantation stage embryos
from the one-cell to the blastocyst stage were derived after maturation,
fertilization and culture of oocytes in vitro. Expression of members of the
insulin-like growth factor (IGF) family was observed predominantly in
preimplantation stage embryos and oviduct epithelial cells. Similarly,
transcripts encoding insulin and IGF-I receptors were detected at each stage of
embryonic development. The mRNA transcript of the IGF-I receptor was not detected
in oviduct epithelial cells, but a prominent band corresponding to the insulin
receptor was observed. Insulin and IGF-II mRNA were expressed as maternal
transcripts that were not detected at the two- to four-cell stage but were
present as zygotic transcripts at the eight-cell stage. Transcripts encoding
IGF-I were detected in oviduct epithelial cells, but were not observed in any of 
the preimplantation stage embryos. Transforming growth factor (TGF) alpha and
beta and epidermal growth factor mRNA transcripts were not detected in any of the
preimplantation stage embryos. These results indicate that IGF-I acts via a
paracrine mechanism to promote growth and development of preimplantation water
buffalo embryos. Similarly, IGF-II appears to act through a heterologous
autocrine mechanism via the IGF-I or the insulin receptor. Furthermore, the
presence of TGF-alpha in oviduct epithelial cells indicates that it may have a
critical role during development.

DOI: 10.1530/jrf.0.1170061 
PMID: 10645246  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

