

337. Mol Hum Reprod. 2020 Jun 1;26(6):374-388. doi: 10.1093/molehr/gaaa024.

The initial maturation status of marmoset testicular tissues has an impact on
germ cell maintenance and somatic cell response in tissue fragment culture.

Heckmann L(1), Langenstroth-Röwer D(1), Wistuba J(1), Portela JMD(2), van Pelt
AMM(2), Redmann K(1), Stukenborg JB(3), Schlatt S(1), Neuhaus N(1).

Author information: 
(1)Centre of Reproductive Medicine and Andrology, Institute of Reproductive and
Regenerative Biology, Albert-Schweitzer-Campus 1, Building D11, 48149 Münster,
Germany.
(2)Center for Reproductive Medicine, Research Institute Reproduction and
Development, Amsterdam UMC, University of Amsterdam, Meibergdreef 9, 1105 AZ
Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(3)NORDFERTIL Research Lab Stockholm, Childhood Cancer Research Unit, Department 
of Women's and Children's Health, Karolinska Institutet and Karolinska University
Hospital, 17164 Solna, Sweden.

Successful in vitro spermatogenesis was reported using immature mouse testicular 
tissues in a fragment culture approach, raising hopes that this method could also
be applied for fertility preservation in humans. Although maintaining immature
human testicular tissue fragments in culture is feasible for an extended period, 
it remains unknown whether germ cell survival and the somatic cell response
depend on the differentiation status of tissue. Employing the marmoset monkey
(Callithrix jacchus), we aimed to assess whether the maturation status of
prepubertal and peri-/pubertal testicular tissues influence the outcome of testis
fragment culture. Testicular tissue fragments from 4- and 8-month-old (n = 3,
each) marmosets were cultured and evaluated after 0, 7, 14, 28 and 42 days.
Immunohistochemistry was performed for identification and quantification of germ 
cells (melanoma-associated antigen 4) and Sertoli cell maturation status
(anti-Müllerian hormone: AMH). During testis fragment culture, spermatogonial
numbers were significantly reduced (P < 0.05) in the 4- but not 8-month-old
monkeys, at Day 0 versus Day 42 of culture. Moreover, while Sertoli cells from
4-month-old monkeys maintained an immature phenotype (i.e. AMH expression) during
culture, AMH expression was regained in two of the 8-month-old monkeys.
Interestingly, progression of differentiation to later meiotic stage was solely
observed in one 8-month-old marmoset, which was at an intermediate state
regarding germ cell content, with gonocytes as well as spermatocytes present, as 
well as Sertoli cell maturation status. Although species-specific differences
might influence the outcome of testis fragment experiments in vitro, our study
demonstrated that the developmental status of the testicular tissues needs to be 
considered as it seems to be decisive for germ cell maintenance, somatic cell
response and possibly the differentiation potential.

© The Author(s) 2020. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the
European Society of Human Reproduction and Embryology. All rights reserved. For
permissions, please e-mail: journals.permission@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/molehr/gaaa024 
PMID: 32236422  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

