

3404. Am J Primatol. 1999 Oct;49(2):165-81.

Context and sex differences exist in the acoustic structure of phee calls by
newly-paired common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Norcross JL(1), Newman JD, Cofrancesco LM.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Comparative Ethology, NICHD, NIH, Poolesville, Maryland 20837,
USA.

Captive common marmosets of all ages robustly produce a "separation" phee call
during brief separations from their group. In contrast, a second structural
variant, which may function as an intergroup call, is produced in the home cage
primarily by the reproductive adults. A previous study found that postpubertal
but nonreproductive offspring rarely produce phee calls when in the home cage
with the natal group, yet these marmosets call frequently after pairing with an
opposite-sex partner. The sudden increase in home cage phee calls may indicate
the rapid onset of intergroup calling. Alternatively, marmosets may be producing 
the separation phee variant as a result of separation from the natal group. The
present study investigated whether phee calls produced by recently paired
individuals in the home cage were structurally distinguishable from their calls
recorded in a separation paradigm. We also tested whether sex differences, known 
to exist in the calls of mature adults, could be found in calls recorded from
younger, nonreproductive animals separated from their natal groups. We analyzed
18 acoustic parameters of phee calls produced in the home cage after pairing and 
of calls produced during separation both from the natal group and from a new
mate. Discriminant function analyses found that home cage calls were clearly
discriminable from separation calls (average 91.7% correctly classified),
indicating that the rapid increase in home cage phee call production shortly
after pairing is not a consequence of separation from the family group.
Postpubertal marmosets appear to show a rapid behavioral adjustment to separation
from their natal groups. Additionally, sex was clearly discriminable in calls
recorded both before and after pairing (average 86.8% correctly classified). Like
calls recorded from well-established paired marmosets, phee calls produced by
recently paired, postpubertal marmosets are discriminable by context and sex.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1098-2345(199910)49:2<165::AID-AJP7>3.0.CO;2-S 
PMID: 10466575  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

