

341. Anat Histol Embryol. 2020 Jul;49(4):511-520. doi: 10.1111/ahe.12555. Epub 2020
Mar 21.

Anatomical parameters of the body and the digestive tract of Callithrix sp.
marmosets under the influence of seasonality.

Guimarães-Lopes VP(1), Gomes MRVS(1), Kagueyama M(1), Faria RCV(1), Ribeiro Filho
OP(1), de Melo FR(1), Sartori SSR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Biologia Animal, Universidade Federal de Viçosa, Viçosa,
Brazil.

Due to the ecological importance and given the scarcity of studies on the
digestive morphology of primates, anatomical aspects of the body and digestive
tract, as well as food content were analysed for marmosets Callithrix sp.
(hybrids of exotic species) captured in forest fragments in Minas Gerais -
Brazil, during the dry and rainy seasons, considering that seasonal variations
affect the availability of food and quality of diet. Data such as body weight and
length, and thoracic and abdominal perimeters were analysed, and no significant
difference was found between dry and rainy seasons. In relation to the digestive 
tract, length, weight and diameter of the oesophagus, stomach, small intestine
and large intestine were measured, in addition to the isolated caecum. There was 
a significant difference in the diameter of the ascending colon, which was larger
in the animals in the dry season than in the rainy season. The difference found
may be related to diet, and through analysis of the gastric and caecal contents, 
it was observed that gum was the main food item for the dry season marmosets,
while in the rainy season the animals consumed mainly arthropods. Thus, the
characteristic observed in the digestive tract of dry season marmosets is a
reflection of an adaptive response to gum intake, since this food item is of low 
digestibility, necessitating that the food content be retained for a long time in
this segment of the large intestine, helping the process of microbial
fermentation and better energy utilization for these animals.

© 2020 Blackwell Verlag GmbH.

DOI: 10.1111/ahe.12555 
PMID: 32198897  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

