

3421. Lab Invest. 1999 Jul;79(7):823-35.

Cyno-EBV (EBV-related herpesvirus from cynomolgus macaques) induces rabbit
malignant lymphomas and their tumor cell lines frequently show specific
chromosomal abnormalities.

Hayashi K(1), Chen HL, Yanai H, Koirala TR, Ohara N, Teramoto N, Oka T, Yoshino
T, Takahashi K, Miyamoto K, Fujimoto K, Yoshikawa Y, Akagi T.

Author information: 
(1)Second Department of Pathology, Okayama University Medical School,
Okayama-city, Japan. kazuhaya@med.okayama-u.ac.jp

Malignant lymphoma (ML) induction in rabbits by Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-related 
herpesvirus of cynomolgus (Cyno-EBV) is reported. Twenty-seven of 30 (90%)
rabbits inoculated intravenously with Cyno-EBV-producing simian (cynomolgus)
lymphocyte cell line (Ts-B6) cells developed ML between 45 and 115 days after
inoculation. The peroral inoculation of Ts-B6 cells induced ML in only 2 of 10
(20%) rabbits (75 to 85 days). Five of 6 (83%) rabbits injected with cell-free
pellets from Ts-B6 cultures also developed ML (27 to 122 days). Antibody response
to the viral capsid antigen of EBV was also detected in sera from rabbits
inoculated with Ts-B6. ML of the large cell or mixed type infiltrated diffusely
in many organs, frequently involving the spleen, liver, kidneys, heart, and less 
frequently the lungs, lymph nodes, brain, eyes, gastrointestinal tract, thymus,
and bone marrow. A chromosomal analysis of five lymphoma cell lines established
from tumor-bearing rabbits revealed the rabbit karyotype. Three of these cell
lines showed the chromosomal abnormalities with 12q- or t (7p+:12q-). EBV-encoded
small RNA-1 and EBV-associated nuclear antigen 1 were expressed in Ts-B6 cells,
the tumor tissues, and all rabbit cell lines by in situ hybridization and by
immunofluorescence tests, respectively. EBV DNA was also detected in Ts-B6 cells 
and rabbit lymphoma cell lines by polymerase chain reaction and Southern blot
analysis. The Southern blots of EBV termini revealed oligoclonal bands in the
Cyno-EBV-induced rabbit lymphomas. No lymphoma was induced by the inoculation of 
B95-8 (EBV-producing cells) or peripheral leukocytes from normal cynomolgus
(controls). These data suggest that the high rate of lymphoma induction in
rabbits may be caused not by human EBV (B95-8) but by Cyno-EBV from Ts-B6 cells. 
A sequence analysis of the IR1 (BamHIW) region of Cyno-EBV revealed that this
region is quite similar to that of herpesvirus Macaca fascicularis 1, which is a 
causative agent for a monkey model of AIDS-related lymphomas. The present rabbit 
model of lymphoma with specific chromosomal abnormalities is very useful to
clarify the role of EBV in human EBV-associated lymphoma and provides a means for
studying prophylactic and therapeutic regimens.


PMID: 10418823  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

