

3422. Brain Res. 1999 Jul 31;836(1-2):120-38.

Severe learning impairment caused by combined immunotoxic lesion of the
cholinergic projections to the cortex and hippocampus in monkeys.

Ridley RM(1), Pugh P, Maclean CJ, Baker HF.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Comparative Cognition Team, Department of Experimental Psychology, Downing
Street, Cambridge CB2 3EB, UK.

Monkeys with immunotoxic lesions of both the basal nucleus of Meynert and the
vertical limb of the diagonal band of Broca (NBM+VDB) lost cholinergic
innervation throughout the cortex and hippocampus. They were impaired at learning
discriminations between objects differing in either few, or many, attributes and 
at learning visuospatial conditional discriminations. Monkeys with immunotoxic
lesions of the NBM lost cholinergic innervation of the neocortex only. Initially,
they were unable to learn a simple visual discrimination where the stimuli
differed in a limited number of attributes but they were unimpaired at learning
discriminations between objects that differed in more attributes. They were
mildly impaired at learning a visuospatial conditional task. The impairment
exhibited by monkeys with lesions of the NBM alone ameliorated with time but that
following NBM+VDB lesions did not. Previous experiments have shown that monkeys
with immunotoxic lesions of the VDB alone are impaired at learning visuospatial
conditional discriminations but are unimpaired at learning simple visual
discriminations. When monkeys with NBM lesions were given excitotoxic lesions of 
the CA1 field of the hippocampus the learning impairment on discriminations
between objects which differed in few attributes was reinstated. Pretreatment
with a cholinergic agonist improved learning ability on visual discrimination
learning in all monkeys but this improvement was significantly greater in monkeys
with lesions of the NBM. On conditional discrimination learning, which is
particularly sensitive to hippocampal damage, pilocarpine produced a significant 
improvement in monkeys with NBM+VDB lesions (where the hippocampal dysfunction
was cholinergic) but not in monkeys with NBM+CA1 lesions (where the hippocampal
damage was structural).

Copyright 1999 Elsevier Science B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/s0006-8993(99)01641-8 
PMID: 10415411  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

