

3448. J Wildl Dis. 1999 Apr;35(2):384-7.

Genetically engineered Mengo virus vaccination of multiple captive wildlife
species.

Backues KA(1), Hill M, Palmenberg AC, Miller C, Soike KF, Aguilar R.

Author information: 
(1)Tulsa Zoo and Living Museum, Oklahoma 74155, USA. kbackues@ci.tulsa.ok.us

Encephalomyocarditis virus (EMCV), has caused the deaths of many species of
animals in zoological parks and research institutions. The Audubon Park Zoo, (New
Orleans, Louisiana, USA) attempted vaccination of several species with a killed
EMCV vaccine with mixed results. This paper reports an attempt at vaccination
against EMCV using a genetically engineered, live attenuated Mengo virus (vMC0)
at the Audubon Park Zoo and Miami Metro Zoo, (Miami, Florida, USA) from December 
1996 to June 1997. Several species of animals were vaccinated with vMC0, which is
serologically indistinguishable from the field strain of EMCV. Serum samples were
taken at the time of vaccination and again 21 days later, then submitted for
serum neutralization titers against EMCV. The vaccinate species included red
capped mangebey (Cercocebus torquatus), colobus (Colobus guereza), angolan
colobus (Colobus angolensis), ruffed lemur (Lemur variegatus ruber and Lemur
variegatus variegatus), back lemur (Lemur macaco), ring-tailed lemur (Lemur
catta), siamang (Hylobates syndactylus), diana guenon (Cercopithicus diana),
spider monkey (Ateles geoffroyi), common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), talapoin 
monkey (Cercopithecus talapoin), Brazilian tapir (Tapirus terrestris), Baird's
tapir (Tapirus bairdii), Malayan tapir (Tapirus indicus), dromedary camel
(Camelus dromedarius), bactrian camel (Camelus bactrianus), gerenuk (Litocranius 
walleri), guanaco (Lama glama guanicoe), black duiker (Cephalophus niger),
Vietnamese potbellied pig (Sus scrofa), babirusa (Babyrousa babyrussa), collard
peccary (Tayass tajacu), and African crested porcupine (Hystrix
africaeaustralis). The vaccine response was variable, with high virus
neutralizing antibody titer responses in some primate species and mixed to poor
responses for other species. No ill effects were seen with vaccination.

DOI: 10.7589/0090-3558-35.2.384 
PMID: 10231768  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

