

3449. Virus Res. 1999 Mar;60(1):41-54.

Functional analysis of different LMP1 proteins isolated from Epstein-Barr
virus-positive carriers.

Fischer N(1), Kopper B, Graf N, Schlehofer JR, Grässer FA, Mueller-Lantzsch N.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Medizinische Mikrobiologie und Hygiene, Abteilung Virologie,
Universitätskliniken, Homburg/Saar, Germany.

The Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) is the causative agent of infectious mononucleosis
and is implicated in the development of several human malignancies. Latent
membrane protein 1 (LMP1), an EBV protein with known oncogenic properties, may be
important in the pathogenesis of EBV-associated tumors, particularly
nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) and Hodgkin's disease (HD). Several reports
suggested that sequence variations in the LMP1 gene may define a more aggressive,
geographically restricted EBV-genotype. Most mutations in the LMP1 gene described
are located within the C-terminus of the protein. However, the effect of these
mutations on the biological function of the protein remains widely unknown.
Therefore, this study aimed in investigating whether mutations detected in LMP1
genes isolated from different EBV-positive carriers have an effect on the
biological function of the protein. For this purpose the LMP1 genes were
amplified by nested PCR from DNA out of bone marrow and peripheral blood
lymphocytes and sequenced. Three functional assays were performed in order to
evaluate the biological activity of the different isolates: activation of the
transcription factors NF-kappaB and AP-1 as well as the anchorage independent
growth of LMP1 transfected ratl cells in soft agar. The results suggested that
whereas differences in the activation of NF-kappaB through the various LMP1
isolates correlated tightly with their different expression levels, the outgrowth
of transfected cells in soft agar did not and the transcription factor NF-kappaB 
therefore appeared not to be the major effector for the transformation of the
rodent cell line ratl by LMP1. The various LMP1-isolates also differed in their
capacity in activating the transcription factor AP-1. We found no correlation
between the transforming ability of the LMPI isolates and activation of AP-1
suggesting that other so far uncharacterized domains also influence the
transforming ability of the protein.

DOI: 10.1016/s0168-1702(98)00147-6 
PMID: 10225273  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

