

345. Eur J Neurosci. 2020 Sep;52(6):3531-3544. doi: 10.1111/ejn.14721. Epub 2020 Apr
3.

Compensatory mechanisms affect sensorimotor integration during ongoing vocal
motor acts in marmoset monkeys.

Pomberger T(1)(2), Löschner J(1), Hage SR(1)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Neurobiology of Vocal Communication, Werner Reichardt Centre for Integrative
Neuroscience, University of Tübingen, Tübingen, Germany.
(2)Graduate School of Neural & Behavioural Sciences - International Max Planck
Research School, University of Tübingen, Tübingen, Germany.
(3)Department of Otolaryngology - Head and Neck Surgery, Hearing Research Center,
University of Tübingen, Medical Center, Tübingen, Germany.

Any transmission of vocal signals faces the challenge of acoustic interferences
such as heavy rain, wind, animal or urban sounds. Consequently, several
mechanisms and strategies have evolved to optimize signal-to-noise ratio.
Examples to increase detectability are the Lombard effect, an involuntary rise in
call amplitude in response to masking ambient noise, which is often associated
with other vocal changes such as call frequency and duration, as well as the
animals' capability of limiting calling to periods where noise perturbation is
absent. Previous studies revealed vocal flexibility and various audio-vocal
integration mechanisms in marmoset monkeys. Using acoustic perturbation triggered
by vocal behaviour, we investigated whether marmosets are capable of exhibiting
changes in call structure when perturbing noise starts after call onset or
whether such effects only occur if noise perturbation starts prior to call onset.
We show that marmosets are capable of rapidly modulating call amplitude and
frequency in response to such noise perturbation. Vocalizations swiftly increased
call frequency after noise onset indicating a rapid effect of perturbing noise on
vocal motor production. Call amplitudes were also affected. Interestingly,
however, the marmosets did not exhibit the Lombard effect as previously reported 
but decreased call intensity in response to noise. Our findings indicate that
marmosets possess a general avoidance strategy to call in the presence of ambient
noise and suggest that these animals are capable of counteracting a previously
thought involuntary audio-vocal mechanism, the Lombard effect. These findings
will pave the way to investigate the underlying audio-vocal integration
mechanisms explaining these behaviours.

© 2020 The Authors. European Journal of Neuroscience published by Federation of
European Neuroscience Societies and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/ejn.14721 
PMID: 32170972  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

