

3454. Blood. 1999 May 1;93(9):2839-48.

The common marmoset as a target preclinical primate model for cytokine and gene
therapy studies.

Hibino H(1), Tani K, Ikebuchi K, Wu MS, Sugiyama H, Nakazaki Y, Tanabe T,
Takahashi S, Tojo A, Suzuki S, Tanioka Y, Sugimoto Y, Nakahata T, Asano S.

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Hematology/Oncology and Clinical Oncology, The Institute of
Medical Science, The University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan.

Nonhuman primate models are useful to evaluate the safety and efficacy of new
therapeutic modalities, including gene therapy, before the inititation of
clinical trials in humans. With the aim of establishing safe and effective
approaches to therapeutic gene transfer, we have been focusing on a small New
World monkey, the common marmoset, as a target preclinical model. This animal is 
relatively inexpensive and easy to breed in limited space. First, we
characterized marmoset blood and bone marrow progenitor cells (BMPCs) and showed 
that human cytokines were effective to maintain and stimulate in culture. We then
examined their susceptibility to transduction by retroviral vectors. In a mixed
culture system containing both marmoset stromal cells and retroviral producer
cells, the transduction efficiency into BMPCs and peripheral blood progenitor
cells (PBPCs) was 12% to 24%. A series of marmosets then underwent
transplantation with autologous PBPCs transduced with a retroviral vector
carrying the multidrug resistance 1 gene (MDR1) and were followed for the
persistence of these cells in vivo. Proviral DNA was detectable by polymerase
chain reaction (PCR) in peripheral blood granulocytes and lymphocytes in the
recipients of gene transduced progenitors up to 400 days posttransplantation. To 
examine the function of the MDR1 gene in vivo, recipient maromsets were
challenged with docetaxel, an MDR effluxed drug, yet the overall level of gene
transfer attained in vivo (<1% in peripheral blood granulocytes) was not
sufficient to prevent the neutropenia induced by docetaxel treatment. Using this 
model, we safely and easily performed a series of in vivo studies in our small
animal center. Our results show that this small nonhuman primate, the common
marmoset, is a useful model for the evaluation of gene transfer methods targeting
hematopoietic stem cells.


PMID: 10216078  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

