

3468. Tissue Cell. 1998 Jun;30(3):360-7.

Possible involvement of transforming growth factor-beta 1 and transforming growth
factor-beta receptor type II during luteinization in the marmoset ovary.

Wehrenberg U(1), Giebel J, Rune GM.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Anatomie, Emst-Moritz-Arndt-Universität, Greifswald, Germany.
wehrenbe@rz.uni-greifswald.de

The expression of transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-beta 1), and
transforming growth factor-beta receptor type II (T beta R-II), were evaluated in
periovulatory marmoset ovaries. Histochemical methods were used, in particular
double-labelling techniques, in order to correlate growth factor/receptor
expression with proliferation (Ki 67), apoptosis (TUNEL method) and luteinization
(3 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (3 beta-HSD)). The latter was used as a
luteinization marker. Periovulatory ovaries are especially suited for studying
all aspects since they typically consist of small non-luteinized follicles, large
luteinizing follicles and corpora lutea accessoria (Clas), which have developed
from large luteinizing follicles. TGF-beta 1 and T beta R-II expression was found
in luteinizing theca cells of large periovulatory follicles and in all luteal
cells of Clas. Non-luteinized theca cells, including those of small follicles
were always devoid of any immunostaining. Granulosa cells of small follicles were
immunopositive for T beta R-II. Large follicles with granulosa cell
immunoreactivity of both antibodies coexisted with non-reactive follicles of
comparable size. The highest activity of the luteal marker enzyme 3 beta-HSD was 
co-localized in the same cells that expressed TGF-beta 1 and T beta R-II. The
double-labelling experiments revealed that TGF-beta 1 and T beta R-II expression 
is not correlated with proliferation or apoptosis of follicular cells. Our
results indicate that TGF-beta 1 and T beta R-II participate in differentiation
processes, i.e. luteinization, rather than proliferation. In particular, the
dynamics of T beta R-II expression appear highly related to the process of
luteinization.

DOI: 10.1016/s0040-8166(98)80049-9 
PMID: 10091338  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

