

3469. Lab Anim Sci. 1998 Jun;48(3):264-9.

Growth variation in common marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) fed a purified
diet: relation to care-giving and weaning behaviors.

Tardif S(1), Jaquish C, Layne D, Bales K, Power M, Power R, Oftedal O.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Kent State University, OH 44242-0001, USA.

Significant relations were observed between select infant-care and weaning
behaviors and growth in body weight in common marmoset monkeys (Callithrix
jacchus). The patterns of these relations suggest that earlier occurrence of
developmental milestones, such as cessation of transport (being off carriers) and
weaning to solid food, were associated with slower growth during the subsequent
period. In contrast, more frequent nursing bouts during the period in which
weaning was initiated were associated with higher growth rates. In the case of
being off carriers, these effects did not carry over to older ages, suggesting
that any deficits in growth were temporary. In the case of earlier, more frequent
consumption of solid food, there was some suggestion that there were longer-term 
effects, followed by catch-up growth. The knee-to-heel length of subjects was not
related to the measured behaviors. There was no relation between early weaning to
solid food and leanness at day 75, suggesting that, although this behavior was
affecting overall weight, it did not affect relative gains of fat versus lean
mass. There were, however, significant correlations between cessation of
transport or frequency of nursing bouts during the weaning period and leanness,
with earlier cessation of transport and less frequent nursing associated with
leaner infants, after weaning. Our results differed from those of a previous
study that found a relation between linear growth and abuse in this species, with
abuse defined as physical injury by other members of the group. We found no
differences in growth between abused and nonabused infants. However, abused
infants had lower birth weight.


PMID: 10090026  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

