

3472. Am J Primatol. 1999;47(3):241-53.

The influence of abiotic factors on the onset and cessation of activity of
semi-free Callithrix jacchus.

Suchi S(1), Rothe H.

Author information: 
(1)Ethologische Station der Anthropologischen Einrichtungen, Institut für
Zoologie und Anthropologie, Universität Göttingen, Germany.

The influence of abiotic environmental factors on the period of activity of a
single group of South American common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus,
Callitrichidae, Primates) was investigated under semi-free conditions. A group of
eight members had a territory consisting of a heated wooden hut with a veranda,
surrounded by an open area with a few trees (ca. 3.5 m high) and three runways
made out of roofing slats, on which feeding places and sleeping boxes were fixed.
The food supply was held constant throughout the observation period with respect 
to amount, composition and spatial distribution. From July to November 1995, the 
times of the onset and cessation of activity were determined using a video
camera. An electronic weather station recorded the temperature, humidity, air
pressure, wind speed, wind direction, precipitation, and light intensity at
intervals of 5 min. There was a linear correlation between day light length and
the length of the period of activity over a day length of 10 to 14 hr. With
shorter day lengths, the marmosets were also active during the twilight, whereas 
with longer day lengths a sleep phase during the late morning was introduced.
Ambient temperature and humidity had also an effect on the time when activity
began or ceased. Callithrix jacchus has one of the longest activity periods
within the Callitrichidae. The time of sunrise or sunset, temperature, and
humidity accounted for 66.2% of the variation in the time when activity began and
75.5% of the variance in the cessation of activity of the study group within the 
multivariate model. The results from the present study add to the indications
that in the Callitrichidae there is a strong selection pressure for the highest
possible energy saving during the comparatively long phase of inactivity.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1098-2345(1999)47:3<241::AID-AJP6>3.0.CO;2-B 
PMID: 10075438  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

