

35. Biomed Opt Express. 2021 Oct 19;12(11):7009-7023. doi: 10.1364/BOE.432102.
eCollection 2021 Nov 1.

Label-free imaging of age-related cardiac structural changes in non-human
primates using multiphoton nonlinear microscopy.

Khan A(1)(2), Ramos-Gomes F(1), Markus A(1), Mietsch M(2)(3), Hinkel R(2)(3)(4), 
Alves F(1)(2)(5)(6).

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institute for Experimental Medicine, Translational Molecular
Imaging, Göttingen, Germany.
(2)DZHK (German Center for Cardiovascular Research), Partner site Göttingen,
37077 Göttingen, Germany.
(3)Laboratory Animal Science Unit, German Primate Center, Leibniz Institute for
Primate Research, Göttingen, Germany.
(4)Stiftung Tierärztliche Hochschule Hannover, Hannover, Germany.
(5)University Medical Center Göttingen, Institute for Diagnostic and
Interventional Radiology & Clinic for Hematology and Medical Oncology, Göttingen,
Germany.
(6)Cluster of Excellence "Multiscale Bioimaging: from Molecular Machines to
Networks of Excitable Cells," Göttingen, Germany.

Heart failure is one of the most common causes of morbidity and mortality. Both
maturational abnormalities and age-associated cardiac pathologies contribute to
heart failure. Imaging-based assessment to discern detailed cardiac structure at 
various maturational stages is imperative for understanding mechanisms behind
cardiac growth and aging. Using multiphoton nonlinear optical microscopy (NLOM)
based label-free imaging, we investigated cardiac structural composition in a
human-relevant aging model, the common marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus).
Animals were divided into three different age groups including neonatal, young
adult and old. By devising a unique strategy for segregating collagen and myosin 
emitted second harmonic generation (SHG) signals, we performed a volumetric
assessment of collagen and total scattering tissue (collagen + myosin). Aged
marmoset hearts exhibited an increase in collagen and total scattering tissue
volume at the sites of severe tissue remodelling indicating age-related cardiac
fibrosis. Significantly low scattering tissue volume in neonatal marmoset hearts 
was attributed to a lack of binding between the myofibrils in maturing cardiac
tissue. Comprehensive quantitative assessment of structural composition during
maturation and aging of marmoset hearts revealed significant differences in
myofibril length, alignment, curvature and angular distribution. In conclusion,
label-free high-resolution NLOM facilitates visualization and quantification of
subcellular structural features for understanding vital age-related morphological
alterations in the marmoset heart.

© 2021 Optical Society of America under the terms of the OSA Open Access
Publishing Agreement.

DOI: 10.1364/BOE.432102 
PMCID: PMC8606147
PMID: 34858695 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing
interests.

