

3502. J Cogn Neurosci. 1998 May;10(3):332-54.

Perseveration and strategy in a novel spatial self-ordered sequencing task for
nonhuman primates: effects of excitotoxic lesions and dopamine depletions of the 
prefrontal cortex.

Collins P(1), Roberts AC, Dias R, Everitt BJ, Robbins TW.

Author information: 
(1)University of Cambridge Department of Experimental Psychology Cambridge UK
Downing Street CB2 3EB. pmc1000@cus.cam.ac.uk

Damage to the prefrontal cortex disrupts the performance of self-ordered
sequencing tasks, although the precise mechanisms by which this effect occurs is 
unclear. Active working memory, inhibitory control, and the ability to generate
and perform a sequence of responses are all putative cognitive abilities that may
be responsible for the impaired performance that results from disruption of
prefrontal processing. In addition, the neurochemical substrates underlying
prefrontal cognitive function are not well understood, although active working
memory appears to depend upon an intact mesocortical dopamine system. The present
experiments were therefore designed to evaluate explicitly the contribution of
each of these abilities to successful performance of a novel spatial self-ordered
sequencing task and to examine the contribution of the prefrontal cortex and its 
dopamine innervation to each ability in turn. Excitotoxic lesions of the
prefrontal cortex of the common marmoset profoundly impaired the performance of
the self-ordered sequencing task and induced robust perseverative responding.
Task manipulations that precluded perseveration ameliorated the effect of this
lesion and revealed that the ability to generate and perform sequences of
responses was unaffected by excitotoxic damage to prefrontal cortex. In contrast,
large dopamine and noradrenaline depletions within the same areas of prefrontal
cortex had no effect on any aspect of the self-ordered task but did impair the
acquisition of an active working memory task, spatial delayed response, to the
same degree as the excitotoxic lesion. These results demonstrate that a lesion of
the ascending monoamine projections to the prefrontal cortex is not always
synonymous with a lesion of the prefrontal cortex itself and thereby challenge
existing concepts concerning the neuromodulation of prefrontal cognitive
function.

DOI: 10.1162/089892998562771 
PMID: 9869708  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

