

3509. Br J Pharmacol. 1998 Nov;125(5):1013-8.

Learning impairments induced by glutamate blockade using dizocilpine (MK-801) in 
monkeys.

Harder JA(1), Aboobaker AA, Hodgetts TC, Ridley RM.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Comparative Cognition Team, Department of Experimental Psychology,
Cambridge.

1. This study investigated the effects of dizocilpine (MK-801) on learning
ability in a non-human primate. Acquisition and reversal learning of visual
discrimination tasks and acquisition of visuo-spatial discrimination tasks were
assessed in marmosets using the Wisconsin General Test Apparatus. Dizocilpine
impaired acquisition of visuo-spatial (conditional) tasks requiring spatial
responses to coloured objects, and perceptually difficult visual discrimination
tasks in which stimulus objects are painted black. Dizocilpine did not, however, 
impair either acquisition or reversal of a simple visual discrimination task
using easily discriminated, coloured objects. 2. Motor effects of dizocilpine
treatment, which have been seen in other primates, were examined by observation
of the marmosets in their home cages, using both an automated locomotor activity 
monitor and 'blind', subjective counting of the number of abnormal movements in a
given time period. Locomotor activity, assessed using the automated monitor, was 
not significantly affected at any of the doses tested. Incoordination, assessed
by human observation of abnormal movements, was significantly increased only at a
dose of 30 microg kg(-1) i.m., which was twice the highest dose used to assess
the effects of dizocilpine on cognition. 3. We have, therefore, found an effect
of dizocilpine on acquisition and reversal of some types of cognitive task, at a 
dose which does not cause significant motor effects. This demonstration of a
cognitive deficit associated with glutamatergic blockade in a primate may be
useful in understanding the contribution of glutamatergic dysfunction to
cognitive decline in neurodegenerative disease, especially Alzheimer's disease.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bjp.0702178 
PMCID: PMC1565679
PMID: 9846639  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

