

3534. Am J Primatol. 1998;46(2):105-17.

Diurnal variation on the excretion patterns of fecal steroids in common marmoset 
(Callithrix jacchus) females.

Sousa MB(1), Ziegler TE.

Author information: 
(1)Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, Brazil.
mdesousa@cb.ufrn.br

The use of fecal steroid analysis to assess gonadal and adrenal function in
primates has rapidly increased in recent years due to the ability to collect
feces from nonhuman primates living in wild conditions. These techniques offer an
exciting new potential for enhancing our knowledge of the endocrine status of
free-living animals. Prior to using these techniques under field conditions, it
is important to determine the diurnal variation of fecal excreted steroids for
assessing possible time limitations on fecal collections. The following study
investigates the diurnal frequency of defecation and patterns of steroid levels
excreted in feces from four female common marmosets, Callithrix jacchus, living
in a family group. These females represented three reproductive conditions: early
pregnancy, ovarian cycling, and noncycling (postpubertal). Cortisol, estradiol,
and progesterone were extracted and analyzed by enzyme immunoassay. Diurnal
variations in steroid levels were found by ANOVA for cortisol and progesterone
but not for estradiol. Significantly higher levels of cortisol were found in the 
afternoon, while the reverse was found for progesterone. All females showed the
same pattern of steroid level change, except for cortisol in the pregnant female.
Since all females defecated within the first hour after they awoke in the
morning, this time was determined to be the most effective time to collect feces.
The consistency of our findings reinforces the usefulness of this approach for
studying reproductive and adrenocortical function in marmosets and also indicates
that fecal collection should be limited to either morning or afternoon
collections.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1098-2345(1998)46:2<105::AID-AJP1>3.0.CO;2-# 
PMID: 9773674  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

