

3548. Eur J Neurosci. 1998 Feb;10(2):689-98.

Behavioural effects of subthalamic nucleus lesions in the hemiparkinsonian
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Henderson JM(1), Annett LE, Torres EM, Dunnett SB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology and the MRC Cambridge Centre for Brain
Repair, University of Cambridge, UK.

Recent studies in non-human primates support a role for the subthalamic nucleus
in the expression of parkinsonian symptomatology, and it has been proposed that
subthalamic lesions may provide a surgical treatment for the symptoms of
Parkinson's disease in humans. We have applied a broad range of behavioural tests
to characterize the effects of lesions of the subthalamic nucleus on parkinsonian
symptoms in the unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesioned marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus). Thirteen marmosets were trained on a battery of behavioural
tasks that were conducted at regular intervals before and after surgery. All
received unilateral 6-OHDA lesions to the medial forebrain bundle. Seven animals 
were then given an additional N-methyl-D-aspartate lesion of the ipsilateral
subthalamic nucleus, whereas the remaining six animals received a variety of
control or sham lesions to the nucleus. The 6-OHDA lesions induced a strong
ipsilateral bias in head position; mild-moderate ipsilateral rotation
spontaneously and after injection of saline or amphetamine; and contralateral
rotation after injection of apomorphine. Hemineglect was evident as delayed
initiation of reaches on the contralateral side on the staircase reaching task.
Additional subthalamic lesions significantly reversed the bias in head position
from ipsilateral to contralateral and decreased neglect as evidenced by improved 
latencies to initiate reaching on the contralateral side at the staircase.
However, deficits in skilled movements persisted in the subthalamic nucleus
lesion group in that they did not complete the staircase task any faster than the
control group and remained impaired on another task which required reaching into 
tubes. These behavioural effects demonstrate that excitotoxic lesioning of the
subthalamic nucleus can ameliorate some, but not all, parkinsonian-like deficits 
in the unilateral 6-OHDA lesioned marmoset.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1460-9568.1998.00077.x 
PMID: 9749730  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

