

3549. Biochim Biophys Acta. 1998 Aug 28;1393(2-3):235-43.

An evaluation of the marmoset Callithrix jacchus (sagüi) as an experimental model
for the dyslipoproteinemia of human Schistosomiasis mansoni.

Lima VL(1), Sena VL, Stewart B, Owen JS, Dolphin PJ.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Bioquímica, Centro de Ciências Biológicas, Universidade
Federal de Pernambuco, Brazil.

Human infection with the parasite Schistosoma mansoni is a relatively common
occurrence in regions of South America and is associated with liver dysfunction
and dyslipoproteinemia. Specifically, the activity of plasma lecithin:cholesterol
acyltransferase (LCAT) activity is reduced, the concentration of plasma
cholesterol esters falls, phospholipid concentrations are elevated and
erythrocyte membranes become cholesterol enriched. Previous studies have utilized
rodents (rats and mice) as experimental models to study the dyslipoproteinemia
induced by S. mansoni infection. However, the plasma lipoprotein profiles in
these animals is very different from humans and infection is not accompanied by
decreases in LCAT activity or cholesterol enrichment of their erythrocyte
membranes. Here we have evaluated the suitability of the marmoset Callithrix
jacchus (sagüi) which is small and readily available in Brazil, as a potential
animal model for the study of the dyslipoproteinemia of S. mansoni infections.
The plasma lipoprotein compositions and distributions in sagüi, unlike rats or
mice, approximate those of man with the LDL representing a major lipoprotein
species. The molecular species of phospholipids, cholesterol esters and
triglycerides present in sagüi plasma are also very similar to man, whereas those
of rats and mice favor the longer chain more unsaturated species, Sagüi, like
rodents, can be successfully infected with S. mansoni and after 60 days, this
results in a 50% reduction in plasma LCAT activity, an 11% reduction in plasma
cholesterol esters, an absolute increase of 46% in plasma phospholipids and an
18% increase in the cholesterol content of erythrocyte membranes. These changes
are qualitatively and quantitatively very similar to those previously reported
following human infections. Based upon these changes, and the observation that
the plasma lipoprotein profile of sagüi and human is similar, we conclude that C.
jacchus (sagüi) is an appropriate animal model for the study of
dyslipoproteinemia associated with S. mansoni infections.

DOI: 10.1016/s0005-2760(98)00076-9 
PMID: 9748601  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

