

3564. J Mol Evol. 1998 Jul;47(1):32-41.

A reexamination of the phylogenetic position of Callimico (primates)
incorporating new mitochondrial DNA sequence data.

Pastorini J(1), Forstner MR, Martin RD, Melnick DJ.

Author information: 
(1)Anthropologisches Institut, Universität Zürich-Irchel, Switzerland.
jenny@aim.unizh.ch

The New World monkeys are divided into two main groups, Callitrichidae and
Cebidae. Callimico goeldii shares traits with both the Cebidae and the
Callitrichidae. Recent morphological phyletic studies generally place Callimico
as the most basal member of the Callitrichidae. In contrast, genetic studies
(immunological, restriction fragment, and sequence data) have consistently placed
Callimico somewhere within the Callitrichidae, not basal to this clade. A DNA
sequence data set from the terminal 236 codons of the mitochondrial ND4 gene and 
the tRNA(His), tRNA(Ser), and tRNA(Leu) genes was generated to clarify the
position of Callimico. The sequences of 887 base pairs were analyzed by
maximum-parsimony, neighbor-joining, and maximum-likelihood methods. The results 
of these various methods are generally congruent and place Callimico within the
Callitrichidae between the marmosets (Callithrix and Cebuella) and the tamarins
(Saguinus and Leontopithecus). Combined analyses of all suitable nuclear and
mitochondrial gene sequences confirm the position of Callimico between the
marmosets and the tamarins. As available molecular evidence indicates that
Callimico is more closely related to the marmosets than to the tamarins, a
reconsideration of the morphological evidence in light of the consensus tree from
DNA sequence analyses is warranted. The marmosets and tamarins share four
morphological characters (loss of the third molar, loss of the hypocone, reduced 
body size, reproductive twinning). Dwarfism may have evolved repeatedly among the
Callitrichidae. It is well-known that the loss of a character can occur many
times independently. The reproduction of marmosets and tamarins is extremely
specialized and it is difficult to imagine that this complex and unique twinning 
system evolved separately in marmosets and tamarins. However, it is possible that
a secondary reversal to single offspring took place in Callimico.

DOI: 10.1007/pl00006360 
PMID: 9664694  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

