

3572. Am J Phys Anthropol. 1998 Jun;106(2):113-27.

Functional and adaptive significance of primate pads and claws: evidence from New
World anthropoids.

Hamrick MW(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anthropology, Kent State University, Ohio 44242, USA.
mhamrick@kent.edu

This study tests predicted morphoclines in fingertip morphology among four
small-bodied (<1 kg) New World monkeys (Saimiri sciureus, Leontopithecus rosalia,
Callithrix jacchus, and Saguinus oedipus) in order to test previous functional
and adaptive explanations for the evolution of flattened nails, expanded apical
pads, and grasping extremities within the Order Primates. Small-bodied
platyrrhines which frequently forage among small-diameter substrates are expected
to possess 1) relatively expanded apical pads, 2) well-developed epidermal
ridges, 3) distally broad terminal phalanges, and 4) reduced flexor and extensor 
tubercles compared to those species which use large-diameter arboreal supports
more frequently for their locomotor and postural behaviors. Results show that as 
the frequency of small-branch foraging increases among taxa within this sample,
relative distal phalanx breadth also increases but distal phalanx length, height,
and flexor tubercle size decrease. Moreover, epidermal ridge development becomes 
more pronounced as the frequency of small-branch foraging increases. Terminal
phalanx breadth and epidermal ridge complexity are both positively correlated
with apical pad size. The large, flexible apical pad increases stability of the
hand and foot on small-diameter arboreal supports because the pad can contact the
substrate in several planes which, in turn, enables the pad to resist disruptive 
forces from different directions by friction and interlocking (Hildebrand, 1995).
The observed morphoclines demonstrate that a gradient in form from claw- to
nail-like tegulae exists among these taxa. Thus, the distinction between claw-
and nail-bearing platyrrhines is essentially arbitrary. These observations
corroborate Cartmill's (1972) functional and adaptive model for the loss of claws
in primates: namely, expanded apical pads are required for habitual locomotor and
postural behaviors on small-diameter supports whereas claws are more useful for
positional behaviors on large-diameter substrates. Finally, results from this
study support previous suggestions that the keeled tegulae of callitrichines
represent a derived postural adaptation rather than a primitive retention from an
ancestral eutherian condition.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1096-8644(199806)106:2<113::AID-AJPA2>3.0.CO;2-R 
PMID: 9637179  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

