

3580. Br J Pharmacol. 1998 Apr;123(8):1579-86.

Purinoceptor subtypes mediating contraction and relaxation of marmoset urinary
bladder smooth muscle.

McMurray G(1), Dass N, Brading AF.

Author information: 
(1)University Department of Pharmacology, Oxford.

1. The effects of adenosine triphosphate (ATP), adenosine diphosphate (ADP),
alpha,beta-methylene-ATP (alpha,beta-MeATP) and 2-methylthio-ATP (2-MeSATP) on
longitudinally orientated smooth muscle strips from marmoset urinary bladder were
investigated by use of standard organ bath techniques. 2. After being mounted in 
superfusion organ baths, 66.7% (n=249) of marmoset detrusor smooth muscle strips 
developed spontaneous tone, 48.2% of all strips examined developed tone
equivalent to greater than 0.1 g mg(-1) of tissue and were subsequently utilized 
in the present investigation. 3. On exposure to ATP, muscle strips exhibited a
biphasic response, a rapid and transient contraction followed by a more prolonged
relaxation. Both responses were found to be concentration-dependent. ADP and
2-MeSATP elicited a similar response (contraction followed by relaxation),
whereas application of alpha,beta-MeATP only produced a contraction. The potency 
order for each effect was alpha,beta-MeATP> >2-MeSATP> ATP>ADP (contractile
response) and ATP=2-MeSATP> or = ADP> > alpha,beta-MeATP (relaxational response).
4. Desensitization with alpha,beta-MeATP (10 microM) abolished the contractile
phase of the response to ATP, but had no effect on the level of relaxation evoked
by this agonist. On the other hand, the G-protein inactivator, GDPbetaS (100
microM) abolished only the relaxation response to ATP. Suramin (general P2
antagonist, 100 microM) shifted both the contractile and relaxation ATP
concentration-response curves to the right, whereas cibacron blue (P2Y
antagonist, 10 microM) only antagonized the relaxation response to ATP. In
contrast, the adenosine receptor antagonist, 8-phenyltheophylline (10 microM),
had no effect on the relaxation response curve to ATP. 5. Incubation with
tetrodotoxin (TTX, 3 microM) or depolarization of the muscle strip with 40 mM K+ 
Krebs failed to abolish the relaxation to ATP. In addition, neither
Nomega-nitro-L-arginine (L-NOARG, 10 microM) nor methylene blue (10 microM) had
any effect on the relaxation response curve. However, tos-phe-chloromethylketone 
(TPCK, 3 microM), an inhibitor of cyclicAMP-dependent protein kinase A (PKA),
significantly (P<0.01) shifted the curve for the ATP-induced relaxation to the
right. 6. It is proposed that marmoset detrusor smooth muscle contains two
receptors for ATP, a classical P2X-type receptor mediating smooth muscle
contraction, and a P2Y (G-protein linked) receptor mediating smooth muscle
relaxation. The results also indicate that the ATP-evoked relaxation may occur
through the activation of cyclicAMP-dependent PKA.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bjp.0701774 
PMCID: PMC1565329
PMID: 9605564  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

