

3600. J Virol. 1998 Apr;72(4):3205-12.

Infection of human B lymphocytes with lymphocryptoviruses related to Epstein-Barr
virus.

Moghaddam A(1), Koch J, Annis B, Wang F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, 
Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Lymphocryptoviruses (LCVs) naturally infecting Old World nonhuman primates are
closely related to the human LCV, Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), and share similar
genome organization and sequences, biologic properties, epidemiology, and
pathogenesis. LCVs can efficiently immortalize B lymphocytes from the autologous 
species, but the ability of a given LCV to immortalize B cells from other Old
World primate species is variable. We found that LCV from rhesus monkeys did not 
immortalize human B cells, and EBV did not immortalize rhesus monkey B cells. In 
this study, baboon LCV could not immortalize human peripheral blood B cells but
could readily immortalize rhesus monkey B cells. Thus, efficient LCV-induced
B-cell immortalization across distant Old World primate species appears to be
restricted by a species-specific block. To further characterize this species
restriction, we first cloned the rhesus monkey LCV major membrane glycoprotein
and discovered that the binding epitope for the EBV receptor, CD21, was highly
conserved. Stable infections of human B cells with recombinant amplicons packaged
in rhesus monkey or baboon LCV envelopes were also consistent with a
species-restricted block occurring after virus binding and penetration. Transient
infections of human B cells with simian LCV resulted in latent LCV EBNA-2 gene
expression and activation of cell CD23 gene expression. EBV-immortalized human B 
cells could be coinfected with baboon LCV, and the simian virus persisted and
replicated in human B cells. Thus, several lines of evidence indicate that the
species restriction for efficient LCV-induced B-cell immortalization occurs
beyond virus binding and penetration. This has important implications for the
study of LCV infection in Old World primate models and for human
xenotransplantation where simian LCVs may be inadvertently introduced into
humans.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.72.4.3205-3212.1998 
PMCID: PMC109784
PMID: 9525646  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

