

3622. J Neurosci. 1997 Dec 1;17(23):9285-97.

Dissociable forms of inhibitory control within prefrontal cortex with an analog
of the Wisconsin Card Sort Test: restriction to novel situations and independence
from "on-line" processing.

Dias R(1), Robbins TW, Roberts AC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, CB2
3EB, United Kingdom.

Attentional set-shifting and discrimination reversal are sensitive to prefrontal 
damage in the marmoset in a manner qualitatively similar to that seen in man and 
Old World monkeys, respectively (Dias et al., 1996b). Preliminary findings have
demonstrated that although lateral but not orbital prefrontal cortex is the
critical locus in shifting an attentional set between perceptual dimensions,
orbital but not lateral prefrontal cortex is the critical locus in reversing a
stimulus-reward association within a particular perceptual dimension (Dias et
al., 1996a). The present study presents this analysis in full and extends the
results in three main ways by demonstrating that (1) mechanisms of inhibitory
control and "on-line" processing are independent within the prefrontal cortex,
(2) impairments in inhibitory control induced by prefrontal damage are restricted
to novel situations, and (3) those prefrontal areas involved in the suppression
of previously established response sets are not involved in the acquisition of
such response sets. These findings suggest that inhibitory control is a general
process that operates across functionally distinct regions within the prefrontal 
cortex. Although damage to lateral prefrontal cortex causes a loss of inhibitory 
control in attentional selection, damage to orbitofrontal cortex causes a loss of
inhibitory control in affective processing. These findings provide an explanation
for the apparent discrepancy between human and nonhuman primate studies in which 
disinhibition as measured on the Wisconsin Card Sort Test is associated with
dorsolateral prefrontal damage, whereas disinhibition as measured on
discrimination reversal is associated with orbitofrontal damage.


PMCID: PMC6573594
PMID: 9364074  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

