

3634. Tissue Cell. 1997 Oct;29(5):525-31.

Relationship between expression of integrins and granulosa cell apoptosis in
ovarian follicles of the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Giebel J(1), Rune GM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, Ernst Moritz Arndt University, Greifswald, Germany.
giebel@rz.uni-greifswald.de

DNA fragmentation (apoptosis) was studied during the follicular, periovulatory
and luteal phase in the marmoset monkey ovary by means of terminal transferase
mediated in situ nick end labeling, and correlated with immunohistochemical
localization of integrins (beta 1, alpha 2 and alpha 6 subunits). For this
purpose a double-labeling technique was developed. During all phases, apoptosis
of granulosa cells was exclusively restricted to tertiary follicles displaying
advanced stages of atresia (as morphologically determined). During early stages
of atresia in tertiary follicles, indicated by widened intercellular spaces, no
apoptosis was seen. Staining intensities for integrins beta 1 and alpha 6 were
strong in intact primordial/primary, secondary and tertiary follicles. Integrin
expression of granulosa cells was weak in atretic tertiary follicles but not in
atretic primary or secondary follicles. Double labeling revealed that DNA
fragmentation was solely found in granulosa cells of tertiary follicles
displaying faint or absent staining for both integrin subunits. During the
periovulatory and the luteal phase, granulosa cells of atretic tertiary follicles
bordering on the basal membrane, which were referred to as luteinizing cells,
expressed the beta 1 subunit as well as the alpha 2-integrin subunit whereas
granulosa cells neighboring to the antrum were apoptotic and negative for
integrin immunoreactivity. In summary, early atresia of tertiary follicles is
first characterized by morphological alterations as wide intercellular gaps,
without any signs of granulosa cell apoptosis. Advanced stages of atresia, in
tertiary follicles however, are accompanied by apoptosis of granulosa cells and a
faint or absent staining for integrin subunits beta 1 and alpha 6. According to
recent in vitro findings, our results point to a possible relation between
granulosa cell apoptosis of tertiary follicles and integrin expression in ovarian
marmoset follicles.

DOI: 10.1016/s0040-8166(97)80053-5 
PMID: 9364802  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

