

3638. Ann Anat. 1997 Oct;179(5):413-9.

Proliferation and apoptosis in follicles of the marmoset monkey (Callithrix
jacchus) ovary.

Giebel J(1), Hegele-Hartung C, Rune GM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, Ernst-Moritz-Arndt-University, Greifswald.

Proliferation and apoptosis were studied in ovarian follicles of immature and
pubertal marmosets and in mature marmosets during the follicular, periovulatory
and luteal phases. Proliferation was evaluated using a Ki 67 antibody and
apoptosis was assessed by in situ detection of DNA fragmentation. In the immature
animals only small follicles were present, and the expression of Ki 67 was
restricted to the granulosa cells of follicles localised near the medulla. There 
was no evidence of DNA fragmentation. In pubertal and adult animals Ki 67
expression was found in the granulosa cells of some but not all primordial and
primary follicles. In the secondary and tertiary follicles immunoreactivity was
localized in theca cells and granulosa cells. In atretic follicles
(morphologically classified) the number of Ki 67 positive granulosa cells varied.
In corpora lutea as well as in corpora lutea accessoria, staining was seen in the
nuclei of some luteal cells. During all phases of the cycle, follicles from the
secondary stage onwards were proliferating, whereas granulosa cells of primary
follicles were only stained during the follicular phase. During all phases of the
ovarian cycle apoptosis was restricted to the granulosa cells of tertiary
follicles. With regard to proliferation and apoptosis, follicles exhibiting
morphological signs of atresia can be classified as follows: (1) granulosa cells 
showing strong Ki 67 expression; (2) granulosa cells with reduced expression of
Ki 67; (3) granulosa cells devoid of Ki 67 immunoreactivity and of apoptotic
signs; (4) granulosa cells heavily stained for DNA fragmentation and not stained 
for Ki 67; (5) granulosa cells close to the antrum showing DNA fragmentation but 
luteinizing Ki 67 positive granulosa cells close to the basement membrane. In
summary, it was shown that atresia of tertiary follicles is characterised by
three consecutive stages: morphological alterations, cessation of proliferation
and finally apoptosis in tertiary follicles. Thus, our results indicate that
early atresia as evidenced by the morphological signs is not necessarily related 
to DNA fragmentation, since apoptosis is exclusively found in the granulosa cells
of advanced atretic tertiary follicles.

DOI: 10.1016/S0940-9602(97)80034-9 
PMID: 9341948  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

