

3658. Anim Behav. 1997 Jul;54(1):171-80.

Group size and aggression: 'recruitment incentives' in a cooperatively breeding
primate

Schaffner CM(1), French JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska at Omaha

In many cooperatively breeding birds and mammals, group size is positively
correlated with reproductive success. In marmoset and tamarin monkeys, species
that display cooperative breeding, the presence of helpers appears to be critical
for offspring survival, and breeders might be expected to display social
strategies that would regulate group size. This study investigated the
association between group size and aggression towards strangers in Wied's black
tufted-ear marmosets, Callithrix kuhlifrom small groups (with no helpers present)
and large groups (with helpers present). Residents were exposed to multiple
presentations of male and female strangers. Breeding females from large groups
spent more time in close proximity to strangers, showed higher levels of
agonistic displays and engaged in higher levels of aggressive behaviour towards
intruders than did breeding females from small groups. Breeding male behaviour
did not dramatically differ as a function of group size. After the removal of the
intruder, female breeders from large groups showed higher levels of scent-marking
relative to baseline observations, and time spent in close proximity to the
partner increased after exposure to female intruders in large, but not small,
groups. The results reveal that breeders from small groups are tolerant of
strangers, which may facilitate the recruitment of additional group members,
whereas breeders from large groups, particularly females, are intolerant of
strangers, which may inhibit immigration. These findings have implications for
understanding mechanisms that regulate immigration in cooperatively breeding
animals, and suggest of how breeders from small groups might reconcile the
serious limitation of having few or no helpers.

DOI: 10.1006/anbe.1996.0413 
PMID: 9268447 

