

3665. Synapse. 1997 Jul;26(3):301-16.

Nitric oxide synthase inhibition and MPTP-induced toxicity in the common
marmoset.

Mackenzie GM(1), Jackson MJ, Jenner P, Marsden CD.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Diseases Research Centre, King's College London, United
Kingdom.

Nitric oxide, produced following activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)
receptors, may be involved in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)
toxicity since NMDA receptor antagonists have been shown to prevent MPTP induced 
nigral cell loss in primates. Common marmosets were treated with either saline or
MPTP or L-NGnitro arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) or MPTP and L-NAME. MPTP-treated
common marmosets showed motor deficits including bradykinesia, rigidity, and
tremor accompanied by a marked loss of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive
neurones in the substantia nigra pars compacta and of [3H]-mazindol binding in
the caudate-putamen. MPTP treatment also caused an increase in glial fibrillary
acidic protein (GFAP) staining in the substantia nigra compared to controls.
However, MPTP treatment did not alter the number of constitutive nitric oxide
synthase-immunoreactive neurones in the caudate-putamen. Furthermore, neurones or
glial cells immunoreactive for inducible nitric oxide synthase were not observed 
in the substantia nigra pars compacta following MPTP treatment. L-NAME treatment 
alone did not produce any behavioural changes in marmosets and did not alter the 
number of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive cells in the substantia nigra pars 
compacta, the number of constitutive nitric oxide synthase-immunoreactive
neurones or [3H]-mazindol binding in the caudate-putamen compared to
saline-treated control animals. Furthermore, L-NAME did not affect the motor
deficits, loss of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive neurones in the substantia 
nigra pars compacta, loss of [3H]-mazindol binding in the caudate-putamen, or the
increase in GFAP staining in the substantia nigra induced by MPTP treatment of
common marmosets. The failure of L-NAME to protect against MPTP-induced toxicity 
in the marmoset suggests that nitric oxide does not play a major role in such
toxicity and casts doubt over the involvement of the NMDA:nitric oxide system in 
neurodegeneration in MPTP-treated primates.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1098-2396(199707)26:3<301::AID-SYN11>3.0.CO;2-Y 
PMID: 9183819  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

