

3668. Exp Brain Res. 1997 Jun;115(1):83-94.

Learning impairment induced by lesion of the CA1 field of the primate
hippocampus: attempts to ameliorate the impairment by transplantation of fetal
CA1 tissue.

Ridley RM(1), Pearson C, Kershaw TR, Hodges H, Maclean CJ, Hoyle C, Baker HF.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Comparative Cognition Team, Department of Experimental Psychology,
Cambridge, UK.

Monkeys with bilateral excitotoxic lesion of the CA1 field of the hippocampus
were severely impaired at learning visuospatial conditional tasks. This was not a
general spatial impairment, because the animals were not impaired on serial
spatial reversal, which requires response flexibility in the spatial domain; they
were not impaired at learning to choose the position furthest away from a single 
stimulus, which requires analysis of spatial layout of the test area, and they
were not impaired at discriminating between two patterns that differed only in
orientation. CA1-lesioned monkeys were impaired at learning a visuospatial
conditional task when trials of the two component types "if AA go left" and "if
BB go right" were presented according to either a pseudorandom or alternating
schedule; but they were not impaired if one component type of trial was presented
until three consecutive correct responses were made, followed by the other type
of trial, to three consecutive correct responses. In all cases testing continued 
until a criterion of 27 of 30 consecutive correct responses across both types of 
trial was achieved. Although this suggests that CA1-lesioned animals are
particularly prone to interference effects, they had no difficulty in learning
ten concurrent visual discriminations presented against either a uniform
background or with each discrimination presented against its own distinctive
background, a condition that might reduce interference in unoperated monkeys.
Interference following hippocampal damage might occur at a deeper level than
stimulus identification such that animals with hippocampal damage may be able to 
learn about many aspects of different stimuli in parallel but may be unable to
learn about multiple related aspects of the same subject matter. Monkeys with
grafts of fetal CA1 tissue in the lesioned CA1 field showed significant
improvement relative to CA1-lesioned animals on those tasks on which CA1-lesioned
animals were impaired, although they remained impaired relative to control
animals. This suggests that the grafts had produced some improvement in
performance. Grafted monkeys did not differ from unoperated control monkeys or
from CA1-lesioned monkeys on those tasks that were not sensitive to CA1 damage.
This demonstrates that the grafts did not have an additional deleterious effect
on cognitive performance.

DOI: 10.1007/pl00005688 
PMID: 9224836  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

