

3674. Mol Biol Evol. 1997 Jun;14(6):674-84.

Marmoset phylogenetics, conservation perspectives, and evolution of the mtDNA
control region.

Tagliaro CH(1), Schneider MP, Schneider H, Sampaio IC, Stanhope MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Queen's University of Belfast, U.K.

Marmosets (genus Callithrix) are a diverse group of platyrrhine primates with
13-15 purported taxa, many of them considered endangered. Morphological analyses 
constitute most of the basis for recognition of these forms as distinct taxa. The
purpose of this study was to provide a molecular view, based on mitochondrial
control region sequences, of the evolutionary history of the marmosets,
concomitant with a molecular phylogenetic perspective on species diversity within
the group. An additional purpose was to provide the first comparative examination
of a complete New World monkey control region sequence with those of other
mammals. The phylogenetic analyses provide convincing support for a split between
the Atlantic forest and Amazonian marmosets, with the inclusion of the pygmy
marmoset (Cebuella pygmaea) at the base of the Amazonian clade. The earliest
branch of the Atlantic forest group was C. aurita. In the Amazonian group, the
analyses do not support the recognition of C. humeralifer and the recently
described C mauesi as distinct taxa. They do, however, support a clear
distinction between C. argentata and a strongly supported mixed clade of C.
humeralifer and C. mauesi. In the Atlantic forest group, the phylogenetic tree
suggests mixing between C. penicillata, C. kuhli, and possibly C. jacchus. Most
of the sequence features characteristic of other mammal control regions were also
evident in marmosets, with the exception that conserved sequence blocks (CSBs) 2 
and 3 were not clearly identifiable. Tandem repeat units often associated with
heteroplasmy in a variety of other mammals were not evident in the marmoset
sequences.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.molbev.a025807 
PMID: 9190069  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

