

3682. Horm Behav. 1997 Apr;31(2):159-68.

Social and developmental influences on reproductive function in female Wied's
black tufted-ear marmosets (Callithrix kuhli).

Smith TE(1), Schaffner CM, French JA.

Author information: 
(1)Nebraska Behavioral Biology Group, University of Nebraska, Omaha 68182, USA.

Although marmoset social groups may contain multiple adult females, reproduction 
is typically limited to one breeding female. A variety of endocrine and
behavioral mechanisms have been identified that regulate fertility among female
marmosets. In the present study, we assessed the mechanism(s) by which fertility 
is regulated in female black tufted-ear marmosets, Callithrix kuhli. The
reproductive status of 10 daughters aged 2-24 months was evaluated by measuring
concentrations of urinary pregnane-diol 3 alpha glucuronide (PdG) and luteinizing
hormone (LH). Concentrations of the two hormones were typically low in daughters 
less than 12 months of age, and the profiles suggested anovulation (mean PdG < 2 
micrograms/mg Cr and mean LH < 6 ng/mg Cr). Concentrations of PdG rose
dramatically in females older than 12 months. Eight subadult daughters commenced 
ovulatory function while still living with their family, and the remaining two
failed to ovulate. The onset of ovarian function coincided with a change in the
social environment in two females, but the remaining six females commenced
spontaneous ovarian activity that was not associated with any social or
environmental factor (mean age: 15.6 +/- 1.6 months). Ovulatory function was
monitored in five daughters while housed in their natal family group, while
removed from the natal family group and housed singly, and while paired with an
unrelated and unfamiliar male. The ovarian cycles of these females housed in the 
natal group were characterized by significantly shorter luteal phases and reduced
PdG concentrations, relative to when the females were housed on their own, and
relative to adult breeding females (n = 6). Stimulatory cues from unfamiliar
males were not necessary to trigger regular ovarian function in females. In this 
species, the regulation of fertility in daughters is a complex combination of
behavioral and endocrine factors.

DOI: 10.1006/hbeh.1997.1380 
PMID: 9154436  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

