

3701. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 1997 Jan 15;807:340-51.

Affiliative processes and vocal development.

Snowdon CT(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Wisconsin, Madison 53706-1696, USA.

Affiliative behavior is often expressed through communication, and the nature of 
affiliative interactions affects the ontogeny of communication. I presented three
phenomena that demonstrate the importance of affiliation in vocal development in 
marmosets and tamarins, but the results have parallels in many other species
including birds, dolphins, and humans. Pygmy marmosets use trill-like
vocalizations to maintain contact with other group members. Individuals change
subtle aspects of call structure when they encounter new social groups or acquire
a new mate. This process of vocal accommodation is common in many other species. 
Infant pygmy marmosets go through a stage of "babbling." producing long sequences
of vocalizations that have several similarities to the babbling of human infants.
Babbling infants receive more social attention than nonbabbling infants, and
these social interactions may shape vocalizations towards more adult forms. In
adult cotton-top tamarins, food-associated vocalizations communicate the presence
and quality of food. However, reproductively inhibited juveniles and subadults
use many other types of calls in feeding situations and display a high proportion
of imperfect forms of adult food-associated calls. When subadult monkeys are
paired with new mates and change their reproductive status, they rapidly (within 
3-6 weeks) display both adult structure and adult usage of food-associated calls,
suggesting that affiliative processes can both facilitate and inhibit vocal
ontogeny. Three mechanisms of how social interactions affect communication
(multimodal stimulation, attentional focus, and reinforcement) were proposed and 
illustrated through examples of parrots learning English labels for objects and
attributes and infant cotton-top tamarins acquiring food-associated
vocalizations.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.1997.tb51931.x 
PMID: 9071362  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

