

3723. Am J Primatol. 1997;41(3):159-77.

Familial influences on ovulatory function in common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus).

Saltzman W(1), Schultz-Darken NJ, Abbott DH.

Author information: 
(1)Wisconsin Regional Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin, Madison
53715-1299, USA.

Previous studies have indicated that many, but not all, female common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus) housed with their natal families undergo social suppression 
of ovulation. In this study, we further characterized ovulatory activity in
common marmoset daughters to determine the prevalence of social suppression of
ovulation and to elucidate familial influences on daughters' ovarian activity.
Blood samples were collected twice weekly from each of 46 daughters for 5-12
months, usually beginning when the daughters were 12 months of age. Plasma
progesterone concentrations indicated that 46.3% of daughters in intact natal
families ovulated at least once, with the age at first ovulation averaging 17.2
months; however, none of these daughters became pregnant. Daughters' ovulatory
cycles showed several significant differences from those of older females housed 
with unrelated adults, including longer periods between successive luteal phases,
shorter luteal phases, and lower peak and mean luteal-phase progesterone levels. 
Daughters were significantly more likely to ovulate in families in which the
mother was experimentally prevented from sustaining pregnancies, and in families 
in which the father had been replaced by an unrelated adult male and when the
daughter was approximately 10-11 months of age. Daughters in families containing 
an older sister never ovulated; in contrast, those with a female littermate were 
not less likely to ovulate than were other daughters, but had more sporadic
ovarian cycles and significantly lower mean luteal-phase progesterone levels.
These results confirm and extend previous findings that up to half of female
common marmosets may ovulate while housed with the natal family but that
virtually none sustain pregnancies, suggesting that suppression of ovulation is
only one of several components of reproductive failure. Furthermore, these
results demonstrate that daughters' likelihood of ovulating, as well as the
endocrine profiles of their ovulatory cycles, can be modulated by numerous social
influences within the family.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1098-2345(1997)41:3<159::AID-AJP1>3.0.CO;2-W 
PMID: 9057963  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

