

3727. Ann R Coll Surg Engl. 1997 Jan;79(1):28-37.

The role of mandibular condylar cartilage in articular cartilage repair.

Girdler NM(1).

Author information: 
(1)University of Newcastle, Dental School and Hospital, Newcastle upon Tyne.

The articular hyaline cartilage of synovial joints has a very limited capacity
for repair after injury. In contrast, the mandibular condylar cartilage of the
temporomandibular joint possesses as intrinsic potential for regeneration. This
study aimed to test the hypothesis that cultured allografts of mandibular
condylar cartilage could be used to promote biological repair of injured
orthotopic joint surfaces. Using a primate animal model, cultures of mandibular
condylar cartilage cells were grafted into surgically created defects in a
recipient hyaline cartilage joint surface. Articular wound healing was assessed
macroscopically and histologically over a postoperative period of 52 weeks.
Mandibular condylar cartilage cells scheduled for allogenous transplantation were
initially characterised in vitro. Expansion of primary colonies in organ culture 
provided the allogenic cellular material for in vivo grafting. Grafting of
osteochondral articular wounds with 5-week cultures of mandibular cartilage cells
led to wound regeneration with complete reconstitution of articular surface
continuity by 52 weeks. There was novel synthesis of cartilage collagens and
sulphated glycosaminoglycans within the repair tissue and no evidence of
immunological rejection. Healing of grafted defects was thought to occur by a
combination of donor cell proliferation and ingress of host mesenchymal cells. In
contrast, grafted control wounds underwent largely fibrous repair with incomplete
articular regeneration. In conclusion, transplanted allografts of cultured
mandibular condylar cartilage appeared to have the ability, in this primate
model, to promote cartilaginous repair and regeneration of orthotopic articular
wounds.


PMCID: PMC2502635
PMID: 9038492  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

