

3744. J Endocrinol. 1996 Nov;151(2):203-13.

Expression of tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases-1 in the primate ovary
during induced luteal regression.

Duncan WC(1), Illingworth PJ, Fraser HM.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Reproductive Biology Unit, Centre for Reproductive Biology, Edinburgh, UK.

Although tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases-1 (TIMP-1) is one of the major
secretory products of the corpus luteum, the functional significance of this is
not clear. In addition to its role as a specific inhibitor of the matrix
metalloproteinase enzymes involved in tissue remodelling, it has recently been
suggested that TIMP-1 is also a potent stimulator of steroidogenesis in vitro.
However, in the ruminant, TIMP-1 expression increases during luteal regression.
This study sought to determine (i) the effect of induced luteal regression on
ovarian TIMP-1 expression in the primate and (ii) the expression of TIMP-1 in
other steroidogenic and non-steroidogenic tissues. Marmoset ovaries were studied 
on day 10 of the normal luteal phase and 12 and 24 h after induced luteolysis,
with either gonadotrophin-releasing hormone (GnRH) antagonist or prostaglandin F2
alpha analogue. Ovaries from different stages of the normal ovarian cycle were
also studied. Expression of TIMP-1 was investigated by isotopic in situ
hybridisation. TIMP-1 expression was also examined in a wide range of other
marmoset tissues by Northern blotting and in situ hybridisation. TIMP-1 was found
to be highly expressed in the marmoset corpus luteum. Luteolysis induced with
either prostaglandin F2 alpha or GnRH antagonist was associated with a
significant fall in TIMP-1 expression in luteal tissue. TIMP-1 mRNA was also
localised to ovarian follicles throughout the ovarian cycle. Expression occurred 
in the thecal layer of smaller follicles (< 1.5 mm) and the granulosal layer of
larger pre-ovulatory follicles. In atretic follicles, TIMP-1 was highly expressed
at the interface between the thecal and granulosal cells. TIMP-1 was found to be 
predominantly expressed in steroidogenic tissues, particularly the ovary, adrenal
and placenta. These data support a role for changes in TIMP-1 expression in
tissue remodelling in the ovary and are consistent with an additional function of
TIMP-1 as a facilitator of steroidogenesis.

DOI: 10.1677/joe.0.1510203 
PMID: 8958780  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

