

3769. Virology. 1996 Aug 15;222(2):352-64.

Epstein-Barr virus single-stranded DNA-binding protein: purification,
characterization, and action on DNA synthesis by the viral DNA polymerase.

Tsurumi T(1), Kobayashi A, Tamai K, Yamada H, Daikoku T, Yamashita Y, Nishiyama
Y.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Virology, Nagoya University School of Medicine, Japan.

Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) BALF2 gene product is one of the essential components in
the lytic phase of the EBV DNA replication. The BALF2 protein was purified to
near homogeneity from the nuclear extract of B95-8 cells with virus productive
cycle induced by chemical agents. SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis showed
the presence of a single polypeptide with a molecular weight of 130 K, which was 
identified as BALF2 protein by Western immunoblot analysis. On Superose 6 HR
10/30 gel filtration the BALF2 protein eluted at a position corresponding to an
apparent molecular mass of approximately 128 K, indicating that the BALF2 protein
behaves as a monomer in solution. The purified BALF2 protein bound to
single-stranded DNA preferentially over double-stranded DNA or single-stranded
RNA. Replication of singly primed M13 single-stranded DNA by the EBV DNA
polymerase complex in the absence of the BALF2 protein exhibited a highly
processive mode of replication and generated full length products in addition to 
some bands of pausing sites. Although the addition of the BALF2 protein did not
affect the replication rate, the average chain length of the replication products
was slightly increased with eliminating bands of pausing sites. Similar effects
were observed with the reconstituted polymerase complex composed of the BALF5 and
BMRF1 Pol subunits. On the other hand, in the absence of the BALF2 protein, the
BALF5 Pol catalytic subunit alone extended the primer slightly and paused at
specific sites on M13 ssDNA template where stable secondary structure is
predicted. However, addition of the BALF2 protein, in contrast to the case of
herpes simplex virus ICP8 which does not affect the overall distribution of
length of the replication products synthesized by the HSV Pol catalytic subunit
(Gottlieb et al., 1990, J. Virol. 64, 5976-5987), stimulated DNA synthesis and
yielded a distribution of replication products with long lengths in addition to
full length products. Although the BALF2 protein behaved as if it converts a low 
processive enzyme of the EBV Pol catalytic subunit to a highly processive form
like the BMRF1 Pol accessory subunit, challenger DNA experiments revealed that
the EBV Pol catalytic subunit is transferred to challenger DNA even in the
presence of the BALF2 protein. It is therefore likely that the EBV BALF2 protein 
functions to melt out the regions of secondary structure on the single-stranded
DNA template, thereby reducing and eliminating pausing of the EBV DNA polymerase 
at specific sites. These properties indicate that the EBV BALF2 protein acts as a
single-stranded DNA-binding protein during lytic phase of EBV DNA replication.

DOI: 10.1006/viro.1996.0432 
PMID: 8806519  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

