

3777. J Biol Chem. 1996 Jun 21;271(25):14684-91.

Fetal globin expression in New World monkeys.

Johnson RM(1), Buck S, Chiu C, Schneider H, Sampaio I, Gage DA, Shen TL,
Schneider MP, Muniz JA, Gumucio DL, Goodman M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Wayne State Medical School, Detroit, Michigan
48201, USA.

Erratum in
    J Biol Chem. 1996 Nov 22;271(47):30298.

Reverse phase chromatography of the globin chains of adult, newborn, and fetal
erythrocytes from three species of New World monkeys (Cebus apella, Aotus azarae,
and Callithrix jacchus) representing three of the seven platyrrhine clades showed
that gamma-globin expression was fetal in these animals. The globins were
identified by a combination of chemical sequencing and mass spectrometric
analysis. Since gamma-globin expression is fetal in the other major simian
branch, the catarrhines, but embryonic in prosimian primates and nonprimate
placental mammals, the evolution of fetal recruitment can now be assigned to the 
period between the simian-prosimian divergence (55 million years ago) and the
platyrrhine-catarrhine divergence (35 million years ago). The gamma-globin gene
underwent tandem duplication during the same evolutionary epoch, in accord with a
model that suggests that the downstream duplicated gamma-gene (gamma2) was free
to acquire the mutations necessary for fetal recruitment. Mass spectrometric
analysis of tryptic digests of the gamma-globins verified the amino acid
sequences deduced from genomic sequencing. Detailed analysis of high performance 
liquid chromatography and matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization mass
spectrometry data showed that gamma2-globin in Cebus was expressed to a far
greater extent than gamma1-globin, supporting inferences drawn from a study of
the promoter sequences. A "pre-gamma"-globin was observed in C. apella and shown 
to be primarily the glutathionyl adduct. The other species, A. azarae and C.
jacchus, also express only one gamma-globin polypeptide. This work provides
biochemical evidence of an evolutionary trend in the platyrrhines to alter the
duplicated gamma-globin gene locus so that only one gamma-globin polypeptide is
expressed.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.271.25.14684 
PMID: 8663037  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

