

3778. Exp Cell Res. 1996 Jun 15;225(2):257-67.

Functional reconstitution of oxidase activity in X-linked chronic granulomatous
disease by retrovirus-mediated gene transfer.

Zentilin L(1), Tafuro S, Grassi G, Garcia R, Ventura A, Baralle F, Falaschi A,
Giacca M.

Author information: 
(1)International Centre for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology, Trieste,
Italy.

The feasibility of correction of the disease phenotype by gene gene transfer was 
investigated in cells of four patients with X-linked chronic granulomatous
disease. These patients carry point mutations of the gp91-phox gene, encoding for
the large subunit of the catalytic core of the phagocytic cell NADPH oxidase. A
retroviral vector expressing the gp91-phox protein was constructed and used to
transduce lymphoblastoid cell lines established from the patients. Several
transduced lymphoblastoid cell clones were investigated for mRNA and protein
expression, and for functional reconstitution of oxidase activity. Although
extensive quantitative variability was detected among different clones,
functional reconstitution of O2- production was obtained in most cases, with
oxidase function within the same range as in B cell lines derived from normal
individuals. The same vector was also used for transduction of hematopoietic
precursors from bone marrow or peripheral blood either with or without enrichment
for CD34+ cells. A comprehensive analysis was performed on differentiated myeloid
colonies, to evaluate the efficiency of transduction, the levels of gp91-phox
expression, and the extent of functional reconstitution of oxidase activity. A
high efficiency of transduction was obtained in most experiments, with 60-100% of
colonies containing proviral DNA. Among the transduced colonies, an extensive
variability in the levels of expression of the transduced gene and of functional 
restoration of NADPH oxidase activity was observed. These results represent a
step toward the development of a gene therapy protocol for these patients.

DOI: 10.1006/excr.1996.0175 
PMID: 8660913  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

