

378. Zoo Biol. 2020 Mar;39(2):73-82. doi: 10.1002/zoo.21531. Epub 2020 Jan 15.

Gum feeder as environmental enrichment for zoo marmosets and tamarins.

Regaiolli B(1), Angelosante C(2), Marliani G(2), Accorsi PA(2), Vaglio
S(1)(3)(4), Spiezio C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Research and Conservation, Parco Natura Viva - Garda Zoological 
Park, Bussolengo, Italy.
(2)Dipartimento di Scienze Mediche Veterinarie, Università di Bologna, Bologna,
Italy.
(3)Department of Biology, Chemistry and Forensic Science, University of
Wolverhampton, Wolverhampton, UK.
(4)Department of Anthropology and Behaviour, Ecology and Evolution Research
(BEER) Centre, Durham University, Durham, UK.

Tamarins and marmosets are small-bodied social callitrichines. Wild
callitrichines feed on exudates, such as sap and gum; particularly, marmosets are
mainly gummivores, while tamarins consume gums only occasionally and
opportunistically. Zoo marmosets and tamarins are usually provided with gum
arabic as an alternative to the exudates normally found in the wild. The aim of
this study was to evaluate the effects of a gum feeder on the behavior and
well-being of four zoo-managed callitrichines. We studied four cotton-top
tamarins (Saguinus oedipus), four red-handed tamarins (S. midas), two pygmy
marmosets (Cebuella pygmaea), and three Geoffroy's marmosets (Callithrix
geoffroyi) housed at Parco Natura Viva (Italy). We conducted the study over two
different periods, a baseline (control, without the gum feeder) and then a gum
feeder (when the gum feeder was provided) period. We used continuous focal animal
sampling to collect behavioral data, including durations of social and individual
behaviors. We collected 240 min of observations per period per study subject,
with a total of 3,120 min for all the subjects in the same period and of
6,240 min in both periods. We analyzed data by using nonparametric statistical
tests. First, we found that the gum feeder promoted species-specific behaviors,
such as exploration, and diminished self-directed behaviors, suggesting an
enriching effect on tamarin and marmoset behavior. Moreover, in red-handed
tamarins, the provision of the gum feeder reduced the performance of
self-directed and abnormal behavior, specifically coprophagy. These results
confirm that gum feeders are effective foraging enrichment tools for zoo
marmosets and tamarins.

© 2020 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/zoo.21531 
PMID: 31944345  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

