

3785. Pediatr Res. 1996 Jun;39(6):999-1005.

Effects of early parenting on growth and development in a small primate.

Johnson EO(1), Kamilaris TC, Calogero AE, Gold PW, Chrousos GP.

Author information: 
(1)Developmental Endocrinology Branch, National Institute of Child Health and
Human Development, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.

We report here a study of the impact of caregiver-infant relationships on
physical growth and behavioral development in a small primate, the common
marmoset. Somatic growth was assessed from measurements of body weight, knee-heel
length, head-tail length, head circumference, and pudendal pad width in females
or testis volume in males obtained from unanesthetized monkeys. Behavioral
information was gathered by focal animal samples for discrete rearing behaviors. 
Our data suggest that the frequency of positive parental behaviors during infancy
is correlated with stature when the monkeys reach 10 and 20 wk of age.
Furthermore, we found that juveniles that were mistreated by their parents during
infancy were smaller in body weight, knee-heel length, and head-tail length, and 
they demonstrated abnormal social behavior. Finally, to address whether the
apparent decreased growth observed in the young animals that had experienced
negative parenting was also associated with alterations in
hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis function, we examined the plasma ACTH
and cortisol responses to synthetic ovine corticotropin-releasing hormone (oCRH) 
in these animals. We found that the incremental cortisol response to exogenous
oCRH was significantly lower in the young adults that had experienced negative
parenting during infancy compared with those who had nonabusive parents,
indicating altered hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis function in these animals.
Our findings suggest that the quality of parental care influences later growth
and behavior in the young marmoset.

DOI: 10.1203/00006450-199606000-00012 
PMID: 8725261  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

