

3794. J Comp Neurol. 1996 Apr 8;367(3):413-30.

Developmental profile of GABAA-receptors in the marmoset monkey: expression of
distinct subtypes in pre- and postnatal brain.

Hornung JP(1), Fritschy JM.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Anatomy, University of Lausanne, Switzerland.

Gamma aminobutyric acid (GABA)A-receptors are expressed in fetal mammalian brain 
before the onset of synaptic inhibition, suggesting their involvement in brain
development. In this study, we have analyzed the maturation of the GABAA-receptor
in the marmoset monkey forebrain to determine whether distinct receptor subtypes 
are expressed at particular stages of pre- and postnatal ontogeny. The
distribution of the subunits alpha 1, alpha 2, and beta 2,3 was investigated
immunohistochemically between embryonic day 100 (6 weeks before birth) and
adulthood. Prenatally, the alpha 2- and beta 2,3-subunit-immunoreactivity (-IR)
was prominent throughout the forebrain, whereas the alpha 1-subunit-IR appeared
in selected regions shortly before birth. The alpha 2-subunit-IR disappeared
gradually to become restricted to a few regions in adult forebrain. By contrast, 
the alpha 1-subunit-IR increased dramatically after birth and replaced the alpha 
2-subunit in the basal forebrain, pallidum, thalamus, and most of the cerebral
cortex. Staining for the beta 2,3-subunits was ubiquitous at every age examined, 
indicating their association with either the alpha 1- or the alpha 2-subunit in
distinct receptor subtypes. In neocortex, the alpha 1 -subunit-IR was first
located selectively to layers IV and VI of primary somatosensory and visual
areas. Postnatally, it increased throughout the cortex, with the adult pattern
being established only during the second year. The switch in expression of the
alpha 1- and alpha 2- subunits indicates that the subunit composition of major
GABAA-receptor subtypes changes during ontogeny. This change coincides with
synaptogenesis, suggesting that the emergence of alpha 1- GABAA-receptors
parallels the formation of inhibitory circuits. A similar pattern has been
reported in rat, indicating that the developmental regulation of GABAA-receptors 
is conserved across species, possibly including man. However, the marmoset brain 
is more mature than the rat brain at the onset of alpha 1-subunit expression,
suggesting that alpha 1-GABAA-receptors are largely dispensable in utero, but may
be required for information processing after birth.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1096-9861(19960408)367:3<413::AID-CNE7>3.0.CO;2-8 
PMID: 8698901  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

