

3814. J Comp Neurol. 1996 Feb 26;366(1):55-75.

Comparison of photoreceptor spatial density and ganglion cell morphology in the
retina of human, macaque monkey, cat, and the marmoset Callithrix jacchus.

Goodchild AK(1), Ghosh KK, Martin PR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, University of Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.

We studied the relationship between the morphology of ganglion cells and the
spatial density of photoreceptors in the retina of two Old World primates, human 
and macaque monkey; the diurnal New World marmoset Callithrix jacchus; and the
cat. Ganglion cells in macaque and marmoset were labelled by intracellular
injection with Neurobiotin or by DiI diffusion labelling in fixed tissue. Cone
photoreceptor densities were measured from the same retinas. Supplemental data
for macaque and data for human and cat were taken from published studies. For the
primates studied, the central retina is characterised by a constant numerical
convergence of cones to ganglion cells. Midget ganglion cells derive their input,
via a midget bipolar cell, from a single cone. Parasol cells derive their input
from 40-140 cones. Outside the central retina, the convergence increases with
eccentricity. The convergence to beta cells in the cat retina is very close to
that for parasol cells in primate retina. The convergence of rod photoreceptors
to ganglion cells is similar in human, macaque, and marmoset, with parasol cells 
receiving input from 10-15 times more rods than midget cells. The low convergence
of cones to midget cells in human and macaque retinas is associated with
distinctive dendritic "clusters" in midget cells' dendritic fields. Convergence
in marmoset is higher, and the clusters are absent. We conclude that the
complementary changes in photoreceptor density and ganglion cell morphology
should be considered when forming linking hypotheses between dendritic field,
receptive field, and psychophysical properties of primate vision.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1096-9861(19960226)366:1<55::AID-CNE5>3.0.CO;2-J 
PMID: 8866846  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

