

3829. Somatosens Mot Res. 1996;13(3-4):187-97.

Cutaneous representations of the hand and other body parts in the cuneate nucleus
of a primate, and some relationships to previously described cortical
representations.

Xu J(1), Wall JT.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology and Anatomy, Medical College of Ohio, Toledo 43699,
USA.

Dynamic properties of primate somatosensory maps are dependent on normal central 
adjacencies of cutaneous representations. The cuneate nucleus is an important
brainstem processing center of cutaneous information. Surprisingly, there are no 
descriptions of functional representations of the skin in the primate cuneate
nucleus; as a result, the relationships of functional representations at the
brainstem level and other levels of the somatosensory neuraxis remain obscure.
The present neurophysiological study indicates that the main cuneate nucleus of
marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) contains organized representations of
cutaneous inputs from the hand, forelimb, and adjacent body between the lateral
face and proximal hindlimb. Inputs from the glabrous hand are represented
continuously across transverse planes in the cuneate, whereas inputs from the
hairy hand are represented discontinuously. Inputs from distal to proximal, and
radial to ulnar, parts of the hand are mapped in an organized manner. At
rostrocaudal levels where the cuneate nucleus is near its largest transverse
area, the map of the hand is about 2600 times smaller than the hand skin area it 
represents. Cuneate representations of the forelimb and trunk are represented
both medial and lateral to the hand representation, and interface with
representations in the adjacent gracile and trigeminal nuclei. These findings
provide a starting point for understanding functional representations of the skin
in the cuneate nucleus of primates. Furthermore, they provide a basis for
understanding relationships of cutaneous representations at different levels of
the neuraxis. In this regard, comparisons of the present results to previously
defined representations in the somatosensory (area 3b) cortex indicate that
cuneate hand representations are several times smaller than cortical
representations, and that there are similarities and differences in adjacencies
of cuneate and cortical representations.

DOI: 10.3109/08990229609052575 
PMID: 9110422  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

