

3833. Arch Toxicol. 1996;70(11):749-56.

Stereoselective distribution of the teratogenic thalidomide analogue EM12 in the 
early embryo of marmoset monkey, Wistar rat and NMRI mouse.

Schmahl HJ(1), Dencker L, Plum C, Chahoud I, Nau H.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Toxikologie und Embryopharmakologie, Freie Universität Berlin,
Germany.

Thalidomide administration during early gestation results in specific and
dramatic limb defects in primates, but not in laboratory rodents such as the rat 
and mouse. The thalidomide analogue EM12
[2-(2,6-dioxopiperidine-3-yl)-phthalimidine] was used in the present study
because this compound is metabolically more stable and teratogenically more
potent than thalidomide in the monkey. We have administered the pure enantiomers,
since we have previously shown that S-EM12 proved to be much more teratogenic in 
the monkey than R-EM12. In maternal plasma, placenta and embryo of the pregnant
marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus) and Wistar rat, the concentrations were
investigated of the enantiomers and their metabolites after administration of R- 
and S-EM12. With whole body autoradiography the distribution in the embryo,
including the target tissue, the embryonic limb bud was examined in the NMRI
mouse and marmoset monkey. Our investigations showed that both the R- and the
S-enantiomers were transferred to the embryo during organogenesis [monkey,
gestation day (GD) 61; rat, GD 12; mouse, GD 10]. The gestation period chosen was
toward the end of the thalidomide-sensitive stage, but yielded sufficient
gestational material for analysis. Considerable amounts of the enantiomers were
produced via racemization of the administered pure enantiomers and were present
in maternal plasma as well as in placenta and embryo. In the monkey, the
racemization were stereoselective: the S-enantiomer was eliminated more slowly in
the monkey than the R-enantiomer, possibly because of stereospecific binding and 
metabolism. In the plasma and embryo of both rat and monkey, the metabolites were
detected in considerably lower concentrations than EM12, emphasizing the
importance of the parent drug in regard to the teratogenic effect. The whole-body
autoradiography in marmoset and mouse showed high radioactivity in the embryonic 
CNS, the branchial apparatus and in the limb buds. The S-enantiomer of EM12 was
more strongly concentrated than the R-enantiomer in these areas. In the limb
buds, the highest concentrations of radioactivity were observed in the periphery,
sometimes at the very tip of the buds. Accumulation of radioactivity in limb buds
and neural epithelium relative to other areas of the embryo was much more
pronounced in the monkey than in the mouse. Future studies must demonstrate if
this accumulation has implications for the mechanism of thalidomide teratogenesis
in primate species.

DOI: 10.1007/s002040050336 
PMID: 8896721  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

