

3834. Biol Reprod. 1996 Jan;54(1):91-9.

Metabolism of reproductive steroids during the ovarian cycle in two species of
callitrichids, Saguinus oedipus and Callithrix jacchus, and estimation of the
ovulatory period from fecal steroids.

Ziegler TE(1), Scheffler G, Wittwer DJ, Schultz-Darken N, Snowdon CT, Abbott DH.

Author information: 
(1)Wisconsin Regional Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin, Madison
53715, USA.

Gonadal steroids were measured in daily fecal samples providing comparative data 
on steroid metabolism in two genera of New World primates. Circulating bioactive 
LH and progesterone concentrations and fecal progesterone, pregnanediol,
estradiol, and estrone concentrations were measured by collecting blood and daily
fecal samples from four captive common marmoset females and four cotton-top
tamarin females for 30 days. High recoveries (> 80%) of labeled steroids that
were added directly to the feces before extraction were recovered from feces of
both species. Because of the presence of complex steroid conjugates, only one
fifth the amount of estradiol was measured without solvolysis as compared to the 
amount measured with solvolysis. In tamarins, steroids were metabolized rapidly, 
with all postovulatory increases occurring within two days after the circulating 
LH peak (an increase of 2 SD higher than mean follicular levels). In marmosets,
steroid excretion was slower; increased steroid levels occurred 2-4 days after
the LH peak except in the case of estrone, which did not consistently increase
after the LH peak. Circulating estrone and estradiol both contributed to the high
excretion of estradiol in the feces from both species. The timing in the delay in
excretion of fecal steroids was used to accurately determine the ovulatory period
to within a 2-day window. This degree of accuracy is possible when the duration
of the delay to the LH peak is known for a given species. Additionally, steroid
concentrations were highly correlated between frozen and lyophilized fecal
samples (0.81 +/- 0.07 SEM), indicating that fluid removal from the feces did not
effectively alter steroid profiles.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod54.1.91 
PMID: 8838005  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

