

3842. Vis Neurosci. 1996 Jan-Feb;13(1):145-60.

Functional architecture of area 17 in normal and monocularly deprived marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus).

Sengpiel F(1), Troilo D, Kind PC, Graham B, Blakemore C.

Author information: 
(1)University Laboratory of Physiology, University of Oxford, UK.

The organization of the primary visual cortex (VI) of the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus) was studied both physiologically and by means of
transneuronal labelling of geniculocortical afferents. We addressed the question 
whether monocular deprivation (MD) could stabilize segregation into ocular
dominance (OD) columns, which are not seen in normal adult marmosets but are
present in juvenile animals (Spatz, 1979, 1989). Properties of neurons in normal 
marmosets closely resembled those of other New-World and Old-World monkeys and
orderly tangential progressions of preferred orientation were observed. However, 
in contrast to species that display well-defined OD columns, neurons of layer 4
in V1 of normal adult marmosets received balanced inputs from the two eyes. Early
MD (even though followed by prolonged binocular experience into adulthood)
resulted in a reduction of cell size in laminae of the lateral geniculate nucleus
with input from the deprived eye and a dramatic overall shift in ocular dominance
towards the nondeprived eye in the cortex. However, isolated clusters of cells
dominated by the deprived eye were found in both layers 4 and 6. Injection of
lectin-conjugated horseradish peroxidase (WGA-HRP) into the deprived eye revealed
elongated patches of terminal label, about 350 microns wide, in flat-mounted
sections through layer 4. Afferent segregation was sharper and more regular in
the region of V1 representing parafoveal visual space than in that representing
the fovea. Our findings support the notion that all Old-World and New-World
monkeys possess the capacity for segregation of geniculocortical afferents into
OD columns.

DOI: 10.1017/s0952523800007197 
PMID: 8730996  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

