

3855. Glycobiology. 1995 Dec;5(8):775-82.

alpha-galactosyl (Galalpha1-3Galbeta1-4GlcNAc-R) epitopes on human cells:
synthesis of the epitope on human red cells by recombinant primate
alpha1,3galactosyltransferase expressed in E.coli.

Galili U(1), Anaraki F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, The Medical College of
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, USA.

Developing methods for in vitro synthesis of the carbohydrate structure
Galalpha1-3Galbeta1-4GlcNAc-R (termed the alpha-galactosyl epitope) on human
tumour cells may be of potential clinical significance in cancer immunotherapy.
Tumour vaccines with this epitope would be opsonized in vivo by the natural
anti-Gal antibody, which is present in large amounts in humans, and which
interacts specifically with alpha-galactosyl epitopes. Binding of anti-Gal to
alpha-galactosyl epitopes on tumour cell membranes is likely to increase uptake
of the cell membranes by antigen-presenting cells, such as macrophages, via the
adhesion of the Fc portion of anti-Gal to Fc receptors on these cells. This, in
turn, may increase processing and presentation of tumour-associated antigens by
antigen-presenting cells, and induce an effective immune response against tumour 
cells with these antigens. The present study describes a method for the synthesis
of alpha-galactosyl epitopes on human cells (red cells used as a model) by
recombinant alpha1,3galactosyltransferase (rec. alpha1,3GT) expressed in
bacteria. Escherichia coli was transformed with cDNA of the luminal portion of
New World monkey rec. alpha1,3GT linked to six histidines (His)6 at the
N-terminus. The enzyme produced by the bacteria was isolated from bacterial
lysates on a nickel-Sepharose column and eluted with imidazole. This recombinant 
enzyme displayed acceptor specificity similar to that of rec. alpha1,3GT produced
in COS cells. Red cells were pre-treated with sialidase for exposure of
N-acetyllactosamine acceptors, then subjected to rec. alpha1,3GT activity. This
enzyme synthesized at least 4 x 10(4) alpha-galactosyl epitopes/red cell. These
epitopes were found to be accessible for binding of anti-Gal, as well as
Bandeiraea simplicifolia IB4 lectin. It is argued that the method presented can
be used for the synthesis of alpha-galactosyl epitopes on membranes of autologous
tumour vaccines in humans.

DOI: 10.1093/glycob/5.8.775 
PMID: 8720075  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

