

3858. J Virol. 1995 Dec;69(12):8011-9.

5' Coding and regulatory region sequence divergence with conserved function of
the Epstein-Barr virus LMP2A homolog in herpesvirus papio.

Franken M(1), Annis B, Ali AN, Wang F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Brigham & Women's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts
02115, USA.

B-lymphotropic herpesviruses naturally infecting Old World primates share
biologic, epidemiologic, pathogenic, and molecular features with the human
pathogen Epstein-Barr virus (EBV). These related gammaherpesviruses have colinear
genomes with considerable nucleotide homology. The replicative cycle genes share 
a high degree of homology across species, whereas the transformation-associated
EBV latent genes appear to be much more divergent. For example, the EBV BamHI
Nhet fragment, which encodes all or part of the EBV latent infection membrane
proteins, cross-hybridizes poorly to DNA from nonhuman primate B-lymphotropic
herpesviruses. A viral DNA fragment corresponding to this region of the EBV
genome was isolated from the baboon B-lymphotropic herpesvirus, herpesvirus
papio, and used to clone a herpesvirus papio cDNA corresponding to EBV LMP2A. At 
least three tyrosine kinase interaction motifs are conserved despite significant 
amino acid divergence of the herpesvirus papio LMP2A first exon from the EBV
homolog. Functionally, the herpesvirus papio LMP2A is tyrosine phosphorylated and
induces tyrosine phosphorylation of cell proteins similar to EBV LMP2A. The 12
hydrophobic LMP2 transmembrane domains are well conserved. Two CBP (Jk) binding
sites important for EBNA-2-induced transactivation of the LMP2A promoter are also
present in the herpesvirus papio LMP2A promoter, and the simian LMP2A promoter is
also responsive to EBV EBNA-2-induced transactivation in human B cells. Thus,
transcriptional regulation, splicing, kinase interaction sites, and tyrosine
phosphorylation of the LMP2A homologs have been conserved despite significant
sequences heterogeneity in the preterminal repeat regions of these human and
nonhuman primate EBVs. The conservation of the LMP2 gene, despite its apparent
nonessential role for in vitro EBV infection, suggests an important role for
LMP2A in vivo. The similarities between these human and simian B-lymphotropic
herpesviruses, and the LMP2 genes in particular, suggest that the function of
LMP2 in vivo could be addressed by using recombinant LMP2A-mutant simian viruses 
and experimental infection of Old World primates.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.69.12.8011-8019.1995 
PMCID: PMC189746
PMID: 7494314  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

