

3871. J Endocrinol. 1995 Oct;147(1):131-7.

Induced luteal regression in the primate: evidence for apoptosis and changes in
c-myc protein.

Fraser HM(1), Lunn SF, Cowen GM, Illingworth PJ.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Reproductive Biology Unit, Centre for Reproductive Biology, Edinburgh, UK.

There is increasing molecular evidence that apoptosis is involved in the process 
of structural luteal regression in non-primate species. Apoptosis is dependent
upon the activation of certain proto-oncogenes and c-myc protein has an important
regulatory role in this process in some cell types. The aim of the present study 
was to determine the occurrence and localisation of c-myc protein within the
primate corpus luteum, determine changes during induction of luteal regression
and examine the corpora lutea for morphological evidence of apoptosis. Ovaries
were studied from marmoset monkeys in the late follicular, and in the early, mid 
and late luteal phases. Luteal regression was induced either by treatment with
prostaglandin F2 alpha analogue or GnRH antagonist administered during the mid
luteal phase and ovaries obtained 24 and 48 h later. Immunocytochemistry was
performed using a monoclonal antibody to the c-myc protein. In pre-ovulatory
follicles positive staining was found in the nucleus of a few granulosal cells
and in the cytoplasm of thecal cells. c-myc was present in all corpora lutea
where it was localised predominantly in the cytoplasm. In early corpora lutea,
scattered cells with intense staining were observed in the presence of a majority
of moderately or weakly stained cells. In the mid and late luteal phases, corpora
lutea were uniformly moderately stained for c-myc. Following induction of luteal 
regression, regression, nuclear degeneration with condensation and fragmentation 
indicative of apoptosis was observed. In other luteal cells, increased membranes 
suggested necrosis.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1677/joe.0.1470131 
PMID: 7490526  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

