

3880. Brain Res Mol Brain Res. 1995 Sep;32(2):297-307.

L-DOPA reverses altered gene expression of substance P but not enkephalin in the 
caudate-putamen of common marmosets treated with MPTP.

Jolkkonen J(1), Jenner P, Marsden CD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Kuopio, Finland.

The mRNA levels encoding neuropeptides were measured in the caudate nucleus,
putamen and nucleus accumbens of common marmosets exposed to
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine pyridine (MPTP). Motor deficits
induced by MPTP treatment were characterized by akinesia, postural abnormalities 
and rigidity. Seven days after MPTP treatment, there was a marked increase in
levels of enkephalin mRNA in the caudate nucleus and putamen. In contrast, the
hybridization signal for substance P mRNA was reduced. Alterations in the mRNA
encoding neuropeptides were similar but less extensive in marmosets at 18-50
months following MPTP treatment. No significant changes in enkephalin or
substance P mRNA in the nucleus accumbens were observed at either time. Treatment
with L-DOPA plus carbidopa for 4 weeks reversed MPTP-induce motor deficits and
other behavioural abnormalities. The decrease in substance P mRNA in the striatum
of MPTP-treated animals was reversed by L-DOPA treatment and reached levels above
those found in normal animals. In contrast, the increase in enkephalin mRNA in
marmosets treated with MPTP was not altered by L-DOPA treatment. In the nucleus
accumbens the levels of peptide mRNA were not affected by L-DOPA treatment. Loss 
of nigral dopamine cells in a primate species causes opposing alterations in the 
expression of enkephalin and substance P mRNA in the caudate nucleus and putamen.
No changes were observed in the nucleus accumbens, which reflects the resistance 
of the mesolimbic neurons to MPTP toxicity. While the decrease in substance P
mRNA was reversed by L-DOPA treatment, the increase in enkephalin mRNA was not.
This may partly indicate the greater effect of L-DOPA on the direct GABA pathway 
compared to the indirect output pathway from the striatum.

DOI: 10.1016/0169-328x(95)00084-6 
PMID: 7500841  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

