

3883. Hum Genet. 1995 Aug;96(2):188-92.

Distribution of human endogenous retrovirus HERV-K genomes in humans and
different primates.

Steinhuber S(1), Brack M, Hunsmann G, Schwelberger H, Dierich MP, Vogetseder W.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Hygiene, Leopold-Franzens-Universität, Innsbruck, Austria.

The distribution of the human endogenous retrovirus (HERV)-K genome was
investigated by Southern-blot analyses using a HERV-K-env DNA probe. With the
exception of one DNA-sample, obtained from a Chinese individual in whom an
amplification of HERV-K was detected, Southern-blot analyses yielded identical
hybridization patterns with DNA from peripheral blood lymphocytes of 37 normal
healthy blood donors, with DNA from six tumor cell lines, or with 23 DNA samples 
prepared from various carcinoma tissues. To elucidate whether the integration of 
HERV-K genomes into the primate lineage occurred as a single event or as an
integration with later expansion, we further examined the evolutionary history of
HERV-K by Southern blot analyses with DNA samples from different primate species.
We detected HERV-K genomes in Macaca mulatta and Macaca silenus, which represent 
Old World monkeys, but not in prosimians (Galago demidovii) and New World
monkeys, represented by Saguinus fuscicollis, Saguinus oedipus, and Callithrix
iacchus. Thus, we assume that the infection of the primate lineage with HERV-K
had occurred after the divergence of New World and Old World monkeys, but before 
the evolutionary expansion of large hominoids. In contrast to the apparent lack
of HERV-K-env sequences in DNA from tissue of the New World monkey Saguinus
oedipus (cotton-top marmoset), we found HERV-K-DNA in the B95-8 cell-line, which 
is a Saguinus oedipus leukocyte cell-line, immortalized in vitro by Epstein-Barr 
virus (EBV) and cultivated in human cells. It may be speculated that HERV-K-DNA
or HERV-K-particles were introduced into these cells during in vitro
transformation with EBV.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00207377 
PMID: 7635468  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

