

3886. Biol Reprod. 1995 Aug;53(2):380-9.

Luteinizing hormone/chorionic gonadotropin bioactivity in the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus) is due to a chorionic gonadotropin molecule with a structure
intermediate between human chorionic gonadotropin and human luteinizing hormone.

Simula AP(1), Amato F, Faast R, Lopata A, Berka J, Norman RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics & Gynaecology, University of Adelaide, Queen
Elizabeth Hospital, Australia.

Chorionic gonadotropin (CG), a pregnancy-specific heterodimeric hormone found in 
primates, is responsible for CL rescue with pregnancy maintenance. Of the
primates, the human and baboon gene sequences are the only structures so far
determined. In order to study the structure and function of CG in other primates,
we have isolated and sequenced the coding regions for the two subunits of
marmoset CG (mCG) by the reverse transcription/polymerase chain reaction method. 
Study of multiple clones confirmed a high degree of homology with the human
sequences (88% and 80% for the alpha and beta nucleotide sequences,
respectively). Marmoset CG alpha has an extra four amino acids compared to hCG
alpha, whereas the mCG beta sequence has a 3-bp deletion that maintains the
reading frame and C-terminal amino acid sequence. Most of the differences between
hCG beta and mCG beta peptides occur in the C-terminal region, which includes the
loss of two of the O-linked glycosylation consensus sequences and the presence of
an N-linked glycosylation consensus sequence. When mCG alpha and beta were
co-expressed in CHO cells, assembly of biologically active hormone was confirmed 
by induced steroid secretion by MA10 cells. Partially purified mCG beta was used 
to raise anti-mCG antibodies. To date, an antibody has been obtained that is
capable of detecting recombinant mCG beta, recombinant mCG dimer, and mCG dimer
secreted by cultured marmoset trophoblast. Marmoset CG alpha and beta were also
detectable at the transcriptional level in cultured trophoblast by in situ
hybridization. This suggests that the LH/CG bioactivity reported from marmoset
placentae and embryos is due to a molecule with structural features common to hLH
(glycosylation pattern) and hCG (CG beta C-terminal structure).

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod53.2.380 
PMID: 7492691  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

