

391. J Comp Neurol. 2020 Jun;528(8):1307-1320. doi: 10.1002/cne.24814. Epub 2019 Dec
10.

Cytoarchitecture and myeloarchitecture of the entorhinal cortex of the common
marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus).

de Góis Morais PLA(1)(2), de Lima RRM(1), Ríos-Flórez JA(1), Melo TFV(1), Clascá 
F(3), de Souza Cavalcante J(1), Guzen FP(2), Cavalcanti JRLP(2), Nascimento
Junior ES(1).

Author information: 
(1)Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, Brazil.
(2)Universidade Estadual do Rio Grande do Norte, Mossoro, Brazil.
(3)Universidad Autónoma de Madrid, Madrid, Spain.

The entorhinal cortex (EC) is associated with impaired cognitive function such as
in the case of Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease and Huntington's disease.
The present study provides a detailed analysis of the cytoarchitectural and
myeloarchitectural organization of the EC in the common marmoset Callithrix
jacchus. Data were collected using Nissl and fiber stained preparations,
supplemented with acetylcholinesterase and parvalbumin immunohistochemistry. The 
EC layers and subfields in the marmoset seem to be architectonically similar to
those that have been proposed in nonhuman primates and humans to date; however,
slight differences could be revealed using the present techniques. Throughout its
rostrocaudal length, the entorhinal cortex presents a clear six-layered pattern. 
The entorhinal cortex is divided into six fields, named mainly in accordance to
their rostrocaudal and mediolateral positions. At rostral levels, the neurons
tend to be organized in patches that are surrounded by large, thick, radially
oriented bundles of fibers, and the deep layers are poorly developed. At caudal
levels, the divisions are more laminated in appearance. AChE staining at the
borders of adjacent fields are consistent with the changes in layering revealed
in Nissl-stained sections, of which the lateral regions of the EC display denser 
AChE staining than that of the medial banks. PV immunoreactivity was found in the
labeled somata, dendrites, and axons in all layers and subdivisions.
Additionally, we distinguished three subtypes of PV-immunoreactive neurons:
multipolar, bipolar and spherical-shaped neurons, based on the shape of the
somata and the disposition of the dendrites.

© 2019 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.24814 
PMID: 31765000  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

