

3933. J Endocrinol. 1995 Feb;144(2):201-8.

Induced luteal regression: differential effects on follicular and luteal
inhibin/activin subunit mRNAs in the marmoset monkey.

Fraser HM(1), Lunn SF, Whitelaw PF, Hillier SG.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Reproductive Biology Unit, University of Edinburgh, UK.

During the luteal phase of the primate ovulatory cycle the predominant
inhibin/activin subunit mRNAs produced by the corpus luteum and antral follicles 
are those for the alpha- and beta B-subunits respectively. The control of
expression of these mRNAs and the resultant nature of the endocrine and paracrine
signals which they may potentially generate has yet to be elucidated.
Inhibin/activin subunit mRNAs may have a role in both the paracrine regulation of
follicular and luteal function and modulation of FSH secretion. The aim of this
study was to investigate the expression of inhibin/activin subunit mRNAs
following luteal regression induced by either withdrawal of LH support (GnRH
antagonist treatment), or by a direct inhibitory action (prostaglandin
administration). Marmoset monkeys with regular ovulatory cycles were treated on
day 8 and 9 of the luteal phase with either GnRH antagonist, prostaglandin or
vehicle (n = 3 per group). Ovaries were studied 48 h after onset of treatment (on
day 10 of the luteal phase) by hybridizing frozen tissue sections with
radiolabelled riboprobes specific to the inhibin/activin alpha-, beta A- and beta
B-subunit mRNAs. After autoradiographic exposure, grain concentrations were
quantified by image analysis. In corpora lutea from control marmosets there was
high expression of alpha-mRNA with only marginal expression of beta B-mRNA.
Corpora lutea in animals treated with GnRH antagonist or prostaglandin had
markedly reduced expression of alpha-mRNA while beta B-mRNA was unchanged. In
controls, all healthy antral follicles exhibited a high level of expression of
beta B-mRNA in the granulosa cells and low expression of alpha-mRNA in theca
cells.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1677/joe.0.1440201 
PMID: 7706973  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

