

3949. Folia Primatol (Basel). 1995;64(3):107-23.

Comparative study of oestrogen excretion in female New World Monkeys: an overview
of non-invasive ovarian monitoring and a new application in evolutionary biology.

Pryce CR(1), Schwarzenberger F, Döbeli M, Etter K.

Author information: 
(1)Anthropologisches Institut, Universität Zürich-Irchel, Schweiz.

Oestrogen was measured in urine samples collected from captive females
representing 7 species of New World monkey to provide an overview of the
applicability of such formation in the noninvasive monitoring of ovarian function
and to assess the potential applicability of such information in phylogenetic
studies. Species available for study were the pygmy marmoset, common marmoset,
red-bellied tamarin, cotton-top tamarin, golden lion tamarin, Goeldi's monkey and
the owl monkey. Oestrone conjugates were measured in serially collected urine
samples to demonstrate ovarian cyclicity. Urine samples obtained during the
luteal phase were subjected to HPLC to identify immunoreactive oestrogens;
oestrone and oestradiol-17 beta accounted for almost all of the immunoreactive
oestrogen detected while oestriol content was negligible. Urine samples obtained 
during the follicular phase and luteal phase were subjected to glucuronidase
hydrolysis, sulphatase hydrolysis and acid solvolysis, which revealed that the
major immunoreactive oestrogen metabolite was: (1) oestradiol sulphate in the
pygmy marmoset and common marmoset, (2) residual oestradiol in the red-bellied
tamarin, (3) residual oestradiol and oestrone glucuronide in the cotton-top
tamarin, and (4) oestrone glucuronide in the golden lion tamarin, Goeldi's monkey
and owl monkey. A phylogenetic tree based on the above shifts in oestrogen
excretion suggested that clawed New World monkeys are specialized and that the
lineages leading to the study species split off in the following order: Goeldi's 
monkey, golden lion tamarin, cotton-top tamarin, red-bellied tamarin, common
marmoset and pygmy marmoset.

DOI: 10.1159/000156841 
PMID: 8529968  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

