

395. J Neurosci Methods. 2020 Jan 15;330:108517. doi: 10.1016/j.jneumeth.2019.108517. 
Epub 2019 Nov 12.

Spatiotemporal quantification of gait in common marmosets.

Pickett KA(1), Schultz-Darken N(2), Bradfield AF(3), Malicki K(2), Pape B(2),
Ausderau KK(4), Emborg ME(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Kinesiology, University of Wisconsin - Madison, Madison, WI,
USA; Program in Occupational Therapy, University of Wisconsin - Madison, Madison,
WI, USA; Department of Biomedical Engineering, University of Wisconsin - Madison,
Madison, WI, USA.
(2)Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin - Madison,
Madison, WI, USA.
(3)Department of Kinesiology, University of Wisconsin - Madison, Madison, WI,
USA; Program in Occupational Therapy, University of Wisconsin - Madison, Madison,
WI, USA.
(4)Department of Kinesiology, University of Wisconsin - Madison, Madison, WI,
USA; Program in Occupational Therapy, University of Wisconsin - Madison, Madison,
WI, USA; Waisman Center, University of Wisconsin - Madison, Madison, WI, USA.
(5)Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin - Madison,
Madison, WI, USA; Department of Medical Physics, University of Wisconsin -
Madison, Madison, WI, USA. Electronic address: emborg@primate.wisc.edu.

BACKGROUND: Objective gait evaluation in humans is used as a predictive
disability outcome measure as well as an indicator for intervention
effectiveness. Parallel methods of gait analysis in nonhuman primate models are
essential for clinical translation. The goal of this study was to first assess
whether marmosets' gait data could be reliably collected in a Noldus CatWalk
XT10.6 and second, establish a testing protocol to assess gait and the
intraindividual variability during repeated testing.
NEW METHOD: The CatWalk, originally developed for rodents, was modified and used 
to assess gait in eight adult common marmoset monkeys across multiple days and
trials. Data was first analyzed to identify valid runs. Repeated measures ANOVA
was completed for the following gait measures: mean base of support, average
stride length, average swing time, and average stance time.
RESULTS: Raters had a high level of concurrence of usable data across all trials 
with successful trials including four consecutive hindfoot footfalls, during a
continuous, uninterrupted segment of walking. A significant main effect of time
(p < 0.000) but not rater (p = 0.98) was present with significant interactions
for time by subject (p < 0.000), but not rater per subject (p = 0.538), time
(p = 0.186), or three-way interaction (p = 0.297).
COMPARISON WITH EXISTING METHOD(S): Gait has been assessed using force-plate and 
video data. The CatWalk allowed reproducible, automated and translational
locomotor data to be collected at multiple time points with detailed analyses
that identified a diagonal gait pattern.
CONCLUSIONS: The CatWalk system, similar to those used in humans, can be
effectively used to quantify spatiotemporal characteristics of gait in the common
marmoset.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jneumeth.2019.108517 
PMCID: PMC7012682
PMID: 31730871  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors
declare no conflict of interest.

