

3950. Life Sci. 1995;56(6):437-44.

Proliferative capacity of marmoset lymphocytes after tetanus vaccination and lack
of 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin to reduce a booster effect.

Neubert R(1), Helge H, Neubert D.

Author information: 
(1)University Medical Center, Free University Berlin.

Marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) were vaccinated with tetanus toxoid and boostered 
3 months and 1 year following the initial immunization. During this period, the
proliferative response of lymphocytes (3H-thymidine incorporation) to the recall 
antigen was measured in vitro in blood samples 7 times. The experimental
procedure proved to be suitable to monitor a defined but complex function of the 
immune system, and to assess possible substance-induced alterations with minimal 
stress or discomfort for the non-human primates. As a first example, a possible
interference by a single very small dose (100 ng/kg body weight) of
2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) given at the time of the second
booster was evaluated. No reduction in the in vitro response of the lymphocytes
to recall antigen was observed under the experimental conditions used, and the
extent of the 3H-thymidine incorporation was not significantly different in the
groups. When the ratio of the responses between the first and the second booster 
was taken as a measure, there was a slight but statistically significant increase
in this ratio for the lymphocytes of the TCDD-treated marmosets over that of
reference animals. The limitations of these attempts to develop a test system and
evaluate a substance-induced effect, and possible improvements of the test, e.g. 
with multivaccination, are discussed. It is suggested to use this approach also
after routine multivaccination in children to assess possible substance-induced
effects on immunological variables. This would allow an excellent comparison of
experimental and clinical data obtained in primates with an identical technology.

DOI: 10.1016/0024-3205(94)00908-2 
PMID: 7830504  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

