

3964. Neuroscience. 1994 Dec;63(3):881-94.

Death of neurons in the neonatal rodent and primate globus pallidus occurs by a
mechanism of apoptosis.

Waters CM(1), Moser W, Walkinshaw G, Mitchell IJ.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Pharmacology and Toxicology Research Group, School of Biological
Sciences, University of Manchester, U.K.

We have examined the developing rat, mouse and marmoset globus pallidus for
evidence of cells dying by a process of "naturally occurring" or programmed cell 
death. We have demonstrated that cells in the developing mammalian globus
pallidus die by a process of apoptosis and that by day 7 after birth many of the 
apoptotic cells possess a neuronal phenotype. Light microscopic and
ultrastructural evidence of apoptotic cell death included cell shrinkage,
blebbing of the extracellular membrane and condensation of the nuclear chromatin.
Additionally we used an in situ nick translation method to assess the integrity
of the DNA within the dying cells. This revealed that cells with the
morphological characteristics of apoptosis also possessed fragmented DNA typical 
of cells undergoing Type 1 programmed or apoptotic cell death. The lack of
lysosomal enzyme activity within the dying cells and the frequent observations of
phagocytosis by neighbouring cells also suggest that the form of programmed cell 
death is apoptosis and not Type 2 autophagic degeneration. We found no evidence
for cells dying by Type 3 non-lysosomal degeneration since all dying cells
examined under the electron microscope possessed intact intracellular organelles 
and cell membranes. We developed a sensitive silver stain which detected balls of
condensed chromatin within the apoptotic cells. This enabled identification of
apoptotic cells in the developing globus pallidus at low magnification and so
allowed us to map the numbers and distribution of dying cells with time. The
incidence of apoptotic cells in the neonatal globus pallidus was greatest at
birth and then declined such that few cells were detected at one week and none
was seen in the adult rat. Although the loss of large numbers of cells in the
developing nervous system is a well documented phenomenon, there are only a
limited number of reports of the mechanism by which neuronal cells die, and few
of these are in the developing mammalian brain. There are at least four different
morphological categories of neuronal cell death which are discriminated on
morphological and biochemical criteria. Our analysis suggests that apoptotic or
Type 1 cell death is the major form of programmed cell death occurring in the
mammalian globus pallidus in the first week of life. This report also describes
the use of two methods for the ready identification of apoptotic cells at the
light microscope level. Because these methods are suitable for use on tissue
sections they provide a means to assess the incidence of apoptotic cell death, in
parallel with other analyses of the expression of gene products which control
cell fate.

DOI: 10.1016/0306-4522(94)90532-0 
PMID: 7898683  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

