

3974. Am J Phys Anthropol. 1994 Nov;95(3):333-53.

"Giant" tamarin from the Miocene of Colombia.

Kay RF(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Anthropology and Anatomy, Duke University Medical
Center, Durham, North Carolina 27710.

A nearly complete but badly crushed skull and mandible of Lagonimico conclucatus,
gen. et sp. nov. is described from the La Victoria Formation, Colombia. The
specimen is of middle Miocene age and dates from about 13.5 Ma. Features of the
dentition suggest Lagonimico is a sister group to living Callitrichinae
(Saguinus, Leontopithecus, Callithrix, and Cebuella). These features include
having elongate compressed lower incisors, a reduced P2 lingual moiety, and the
absence of upper molar hypocones. The new taxon also has autapomorphies, such as 
a relatively deep jaw, that rule it out of the direct ancestry of any living
callitrichine. This animal is assigned to a new tribe of the callitrichine clade.
The orbits of L. conclucatus are small, suggesting diurnal habits. Inflated,
low-crowned (bunodont) cheek teeth with short, rounded shearing crests, as well
as premolar simplification and M3 size reduction, suggest fruit- or gum-eating
adaptations, as among many living callitrichines. Procumbent and slightly
elongate lower incisors suggest this species could use its front teeth as a
gouge, perhaps for harvesting tree gum. Estimates from jaw size suggest
Lagonimico weighed about 1,200 g, about the size of Callicebus, the living titi
monkey of South America. Judged from tooth size and jaw length, Lagonimico would 
have been slightly smaller than Callicebus, but still larger than Callimico or
any living callitrichine. Therefore, many of the distinctive anatomical features 
of the callitrichine clade, sometimes explained by phyletic dwarfing, may have
evolved at larger body size. Evolutionary size reduction may have occurred in
parallel in callitrichines and Callimico.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.1330950305 
PMID: 7856767  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

