

3999. J Virol. 1994 Jul;68(7):4369-76.

Epstein-Barr virus recombinant molecular genetic analysis of the LMP1
amino-terminal cytoplasmic domain reveals a probable structural role, with no
component essential for primary B-lymphocyte growth transformation.

Izumi KM(1), Kaye KM, Kieff ED.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Molecular Genetics, Harvard Medical School,
Boston, Massachusetts.

Previous recombinant Epstein-Barr virus molecular genetic experiments with
specifically mutated LMP1 genes indicate that LMP1 is essential for primary
B-lymphocyte growth transformation and that the amino-terminal cytoplasmic and
first transmembrane domains are together an important mediator of transformation.
EBV recombinants with specific deletions in the amino-terminal cytoplasmic domain
have now been constructed and tested for the ability to growth transform primary 
B lymphocytes into lymphoblastoid cell lines. Surprisingly, deletion of DNA
encoding EHDLER or GPPLSSS from the full LMP1 amino-terminal cytoplasmic domain
(MEHDLERGPPGPRRPPRGPPLSSS) had no discernible effect on primary B-lymphocyte
transformation. These two motifs distinguish the LMP1 amino-terminal cytoplasmic 
domain from other arginine-rich membrane proximal sequences that anchor
hydrophobic transmembrane domains. Two deletions which included the ERGPPGPRRPPR 
motif adversely affected but did not prevent transformation. This arginine- and
proline-rich sequence is probably important in anchoring the first transmembrane 
domain in the plasma membrane, since these mutated LMP1s had altered stability
and cell membrane localization. The finding that overlapping deletions of the
entire amino-terminal cytoplasmic domain do not ablate transformation is most
consistent with a model postulating that the transmembrane and carboxyl-terminal 
cytoplasmic domains are the likely biochemical effectors of transformation.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.68.7.4369-4376.1994 
PMCID: PMC236360
PMID: 8207810  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

