

4010. Biol Reprod. 1994 Jun;50(6):1394-402.

Differential control of immunoreactive alpha-inhibin and progesterone production 
by marmoset luteal cells in vitro: evidence for a paracrine action of
alpha-inhibin on basal and gonadotropin-stimulated progesterone production.

Webley GE(1), Marsden PL, Knight PG.

Author information: 
(1)MRC/AFRC Comparative Physiology Group, Institute of Zoology, Regent's Park,
London, United Kingdom.

There is an increase in plasma concentrations of immunoreactive (ir) inhibin
unaccompanied by a rise in plasma progesterone during early pregnancy in the
marmoset monkey. We investigated the potential involvement of hCG and
prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) in stimulating a selective increase in inhibin
concentrations by measuring the production of ir-alpha-inhibin and progesterone
by dispersed luteal cells cultured under serum-free conditions. After one day,
hCG had no effect on progesterone production by the cells but stimulated a
significant increase (p < 0.05) in alpha-inhibin production. PGE2 significantly
increased progesterone production (p < 0.001) but inhibited the production of
alpha-inhibin (p < 0.001). After three days of culture, output of alpha-inhibin
fell to low levels and no significant effect of hCG or PGE2 was detected.
Progesterone also fell with time in culture, but hCG maintained production
resulting in a significant increase above control levels (p < 0.001). The
addition of low density lipoproteins (LDL) to the culture medium increased
progesterone production (p < 0.001) while decreasing alpha-inhibin production (p 
< 0.01). Immunoneutralization of endogenous alpha-inhibin resulted in a
significant decrease in both basal (p < 0.05) and gonadotropin-stimulated (p <
0.05) progesterone concentrations. These results provide further evidence for
differential control of progesterone and alpha-inhibin production by marmoset
luteal cells and show that hCG can selectively stimulate alpha-inhibin
production. In addition, alpha-inhibin may have a local paracrine action in the
marmoset CL, enhancing both basal and gonadotropin-stimulated progesterone
secretion.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod50.6.1394 
PMID: 8080927  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

