

4011. J Endocrinol. 1994 Jun;141(3):439-47.

Blockade of the neonatal rise in testosterone by a gonadotrophin-releasing
hormone antagonist: effects on timing of puberty and sexual behaviour in the male
marmoset monkey.

Lunn SF(1), Recio R, Morris K, Fraser HM.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Reproductive Biology Unit, Centre for Reproductive Biology, Edinburgh, UK.

In primates, plasma testosterone concentrations are elevated for some 3 months
from birth. The function of this rise is uncertain, but studies in rats suggest
that its prevention by castration or administration of gonadotrophin
hormone-releasing hormone (GnRH) analogues has effects on development and
expression of social and sexual behaviours, and adverse long-term effects on
fertility. The consequences of suppression of this rise in testosterone by
treatment with the GnRH antagonist antide have been investigated in the marmoset 
monkey. Eight sets of male:male twins were used, one of each set receiving s.c.
injections of antide (10 mg/kg), on days 0, 3 and 7, then weekly from birth to 98
days of age, with the twin receiving vehicle only. Plasma samples were taken at
weekly intervals for the determination of testosterone concentrations from birth 
until 2 years of age. Treatment with antide completely abolished the neonatal
rise in testosterone seen in control animals. The timing of the onset of the
pubertal testosterone rise was not significantly affected by treatment; however, 
the subsequent pattern of circulating testosterone showed a tendency to decreased
plasma concentrations in the neonatally treated group from weeks 25 to 42,
relative to controls, and this difference was significant between 43 and 70
weeks. This was associated with a similar depression in bioactive LH
concentrations around this time. Thereafter, the testosterone concentrations were
similar between treated and control groups. There was no effect of treatment on
growth, based on sequential body weight data. At 20 months the animals underwent 
behaviour tests with ovariectomized females.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1677/joe.0.1410439 
PMID: 8071642  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

