

4020. J Neurosci. 1994 May;14(5 Pt 1):2531-44.

6-Hydroxydopamine lesions of the prefrontal cortex in monkeys enhance performance
on an analog of the Wisconsin Card Sort Test: possible interactions with
subcortical dopamine.

Roberts AC(1), De Salvia MA, Wilkinson LS, Collins P, Muir JL, Everitt BJ,
Robbins TW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, University of Cambridge, United
Kingdom.

The effects of 6-hydroxydopamine lesions of the prefrontal cortex in monkeys were
investigated on two cognitive tests of prefrontal function, spatial delayed
response, and attentional set shifting. The latter test provided a componential
analysis of the Wisconsin Card Sort Test, a commonly used clinical test of
frontal lobe function in man. Acquisition of a visual compound discrimination
requiring a shift of attention from one dimension to another (extradimensional
shift), for example, shapes to lines, was significantly improved. This
enhancement was behaviorally specific in that there were no effects on
acquisition of a discrimination that required the continued maintenance of an
attentional set toward one particular dimension (intradimensional shift), nor any
effects on a series of visual or spatial discrimination reversals that involved
the repeated shifting of responding between two exemplars from the same
dimension. In contrast, spatial delayed response performance was impaired, in
agreement with previous results. Neurochemical measures showed a marked depletion
of dopamine limited to the prefrontal cortex and a smaller loss of prefrontal
noradrenaline. This was accompanied by a long-term adaptive change in the
striatum such that extracellular dopamine in the caudate nucleus, as measured by 
in vivo microdialysis, was elevated in response to potassium stimulation as long 
as 18 months postsurgery. It is proposed that attentional set shifting is
mediated by a balanced interaction between prefrontal and striatal dopamine, and 
that elevated dopamine contributes to the improvement in attentional set-shifting
ability. This interpretation is consistent with the impairment in attentional
set-shifting ability observed in patients with Parkinson's disease or with damage
to the frontal lobes using the same test as used here for infrahuman primates.


PMCID: PMC6577476
PMID: 8182426  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

