

4078. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 1993 Sep 24;695:274-7.

Behavioral effects of cholinergic grafts.

Ridley RM(1), Baker HF.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Psychiatry, MRC Clinical Research Centre, Harrow, Middlesex,
United Kingdom.

Experimental work in animals and, to a more limited extent, in humans, has
demonstrated that the cholinergic system is involved in mechanisms which control 
learning and memory. Since there is cholinergic loss in a variety of dementing
illnesses, any treatment designed to alleviate the mental symptoms of these
diseases must address the issue of cholinergic dysfunction even if other
treatments are also required to overcome other neurotransmitter imbalances. Work 
in rodents has demonstrated that cholinergic-rich fetal neural tissue transplants
can, under certain circumstances, alleviate the behavioral effects of cholinergic
lesions or of cholinergic decline associated with aging. More complex cognitive
testing can be achieved using primates and, in this case, the common marmoset is 
a suitable species to use because its rapid and reliable reproductive rate aids
the provision of appropriate transplant tissue. Marmosets with transection of the
fornix are deprived of a cholinergic input into the dentate gyrus, posterior
hippocampus and entorhinal cortex and are specifically impaired on learning tasks
which require remembering a rule of responding (non-evaluative memory).
Transplantation of cholinergic-rich fetal septal tissue into the hippocampus of
such animals completely restores their ability to learn this type of task,
whereas transplantation of cholinergic-poor fetal hippocampal tissue into the
same area produces no such improvements. These results demonstrate that where a
learning impairment is produced by a relatively simple procedure which has a
major effect on one neurotransmitter, that function can be restored by
transplantation of tissue containing that neurotransmitter even where the
impairment consists of a very "high level" cognitive dysfunction.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.1993.tb23066.x 
PMID: 8239295  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

