

413. Folia Primatol (Basel). 2020;91(4):365-384. doi: 10.1159/000502819. Epub 2019 Oct
16.

A Novel Method for Assessing Enamel Thickness Distribution in the Anterior
Dentition as a Signal for Gouging and Other Extractive Foraging Behaviors in
Gummivorous Mammals.

Selig KR(1), López-Torres S(2), Hartstone-Rose A(3), Nash LT(4), Burrows
AM(5)(6), Silcox MT(7).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anthropology, University of Toronto Scarborough, Toronto,
Ontario, Canada, keegan.selig@mail.utoronto.ca.
(2)Department of Evolutionary Paleobiology, Roman Kozłowski Institute of
Paleobiology, Polish Academy of Sciences, Warsaw, Poland.
(3)Department of Biological Sciences, North Carolina State University, Raleigh,
North Carolina, USA.
(4)School of Human Evolution and Social Change, Arizona State University, Tempe, 
Arizona, USA.
(5)Department of Physical Therapy, Duquesne University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania,
USA.
(6)Department of Anthropology, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania, USA.
(7)Department of Anthropology, University of Toronto Scarborough, Toronto,
Ontario, Canada.

Gummivory poses unique challenges to the dentition as gum acquisition may often
require that the anterior teeth be adapted to retain a sharp edge and to resist
loading because they sometimes must penetrate a highly obdurate substrate during 
gum extraction by means of gouging or scraping. It has been observed previously
that the enamel on the labial surface of the teeth used for extraction is thicker
relative to that on the lingual surface in taxa that extract gums, while enamel
is more evenly distributed in the anterior teeth of taxa that do not regularly
engage in extractive behaviors. This study presents a quantitative methodology
for measuring the distribution of labial versus lingual enamel thickness among
primate and marsupial taxa in the context of gummivory. Computed microtomography 
scans of 15 specimens representing 14 taxa were analyzed. Ten measurements were
taken at 20% intervals starting from the base of the crown of the extractive
tooth to the tip of the cutting edge across the lingual and labial enamel. A
method for including worn or broken teeth is also presented. Mann-Whitney U
tests, canonical variates analysis, and between-group principal components
analysis were used to examine variation in enamel thickness across taxa. Our
results suggest that the differential distribution of enamel thickness in the
anterior dentition can serve as a signal for gouging behavior; this methodology
distinguishes between gougers, scrapers, and nonextractive gummivores. Gouging
taxa are characterized by significantly thicker labial enamel relative to the
lingual enamel, particularly towards the crown tip. Examination of enamel
thickness patterning in these taxa permits a better understanding of the
adaptations for the extraction of gums in extant taxa and offers the potential to
test hypotheses concerning the dietary adaptations of fossil taxa.

© 2019 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000502819 
PMID: 31618747  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

