

414. Folia Primatol (Basel). 2020;91(2):149-158. doi: 10.1159/000501186. Epub 2019 Oct
16.

Anomalous Pigmentation in Invasive and Native Marmosets, Callithrix jacchus,
Callithrix penicillata (Primates, Callitrichidae), and Their Hybrids in Brazil.

Aximoff I(1), Zaluar MT(2)(3), Pissinatti A(4), Bastos PA(5), de Assis Morais
T(5), Alves da Rosa C(6), Oliveira LC(7)(8)(9), Simonini Teixeira D(10), Vale
MM(3).

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Pesquisa do Jardim Botânico do Rio de Janeiro (JBRJ), Programa de
Pós-Graduação em Botânica, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, izar.aximoff@gmail.com.
(2)Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro (UFRJ), Programa de Pós-Graduação em
Ecologia, Ilha do Fundão, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
(3)Departamento de Ecologia, Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro (UFRJ), Ilha 
do Fundão, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
(4)Instituto Estadual do Ambiente (INEA), Centro de Primatologia do Rio de
Janeiro (CPRJ), Guapimirim, Brazil.
(5)Department of Natural Science, Universidade Federal de São João del-Rei, São
João del-Rei, Brazil.
(6)Laboratório de Ecologia e Conservação de Mamíferos, Universidade Federal de
Lavras, Lavras, Brazil.
(7)Centro de Educação e Humanidades, Faculdade de Formação de Professores de São 
Gonçalo, Universidade do Estado do Rio de Janeiro (UERJ), São Gonçalo, Brazil.
(8)Bicho do Mato Instituto de Pesquisa, Belo Horizonte, Brazil.
(9)Applied Ecology and Conservation Lab, Programa de Pós-Graduação em Ecologia e 
Conservação da Biodiversidade, Universidade Estadual de Santa Cruz, Ilhéus,
Brazil.
(10)Departamento de Ciências Agrárias e Ambientais, Universidade Estadual de
Santa Cruz, Ilhéus, Brazil.

Leucism is the lack or reduction in pigmentation in the most or parts of the
body, but not in the eyes and body extremities. It is extremely rare in primates 
and has never been reported for Callithrix, a genus endemic to Brazil. We
searched for individuals of Callithrix jacchus and C. penicillata with
pigmentation anomalies in a systematic survey of three protected areas in the
Atlantic Forest, within museum collections in Brazil, and opportunistically
during field studies. Since 2008, we have recorded 8 individuals with leucism in 
small urban and periurban forest patches. Four were from native populations of C.
penicillata in Cerrado savannahs and of C. jacchus in the Caatinga xeric
scrubland, and 4 were from populations of hybrids between C. jacchus and C.
penicillata in invaded areas in the coastal Atlantic Forest. We found no
pigmentation abnormalities in museum specimens. We hypothesize that the observed 
leucism may be linked to inbreeding within the native range, but to hybridization
within the invaded range, and discuss the likely ecological consequences to
leucistic individuals.

© 2019 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000501186 
PMID: 31618728  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

