

4147. Am J Primatol. 1993;31(3):181-188. doi: 10.1002/ajp.1350310303.

Detection of urinary gonadotropins in callitrichid monkeys with a sensitive
immunoassay based upan a unique monoclonal antibody.

Ziegler TE(1)(2), Matteri RL(2)(3), Wegner FH(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wisconsin.
(2)Department of Wisconsin Regional Primate Research Center, University of
Wisconsin, Madison, Wisconsin.
(3)United States Department of Agriculture, Agricultural Research Service, S-143 
Animal Sciences Research Center, University of Missouri, Columbia, Missouri.

A radioimmunological method for measuring urinary luteinizing hormone (LH) and
chorionic gonadotropin (CG) excretion in the family Callitrichidae is described. 
The method uses a monoclonal antibody that will be available in virtually
unlimited quantity. Several polyclonal antisera that have been useful for the
detection of callitrichid gonadotropins are near depletion. The monoclonal
antibody-based RIA provided similar results when compared with the mouse Leydig
cell bioassay for LH and a previously validated polyclonal antibody-based RIA.
When the monoclonal antibody is used for immunodetection of Saguinus oedipus LH
by non-reducing SDS-PAGE, a single entity is recognized that corresponds with the
molecular weight range of bioactive LH and appears to be in the normal range for 
LH in nonhuman primates. LH and CG were detected by the monoclonal antibody-based
RIA in urine from representatives of species from all genera of callitrichids.
Hormonal profiles of daily urine samples revealed the detection of the
preovulatory LH surge by both RIA methods in the cotton-top tamarin (Saguinus
Oedipus) and pygmy marmoset (Cebuella pygmea) and the increase CG due to
pregnancy in both species. Serial dilutions of midcycle and pregnancy urine from 
Saguinus, Callithrix, Leontopithecus, and Cebuella exhibited parallelism when
compared with our in-house reference standard of rhesus monkey CG. Cultured
Saguinus oedipus pituitary cells showed an increased release of LH when
challenged by gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) providing further support
that the monoclonal antibody-based RIA measures LH in this species. © 1993
Wiley-Liss, Inc.

Copyright © 1993 Wiley‐Liss, Inc., A Wiley Company.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.1350310303 
PMID: 31937000 

