

416. J Vis Exp. 2019 Sep 29;(151). doi: 10.3791/60240.

Stereotaxic Surgery for Implantation of Microelectrode Arrays in the Common
Marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Budoff SA(#)(1), Rodrigues Neto JF(#)(2), Arboés V(2), Nascimento MSL(2), Kunicki
CB(2), Araújo MFP(3).

Author information: 
(1)Edmond and Lily Safra International Institute of Neuroscience, Santos Dumont
Institute; Neuroscience Program, University of Colorado Anschutz Medical Campus.
(2)Edmond and Lily Safra International Institute of Neuroscience, Santos Dumont
Institute.
(3)Edmond and Lily Safra International Institute of Neuroscience, Santos Dumont
Institute; Department of Physiological Sciences, Health Sciences Center, Federal 
University of Espírito Santo; mfparaujo@gmail.com.
(#)Contributed equally

Marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) are small non-human primates that are gaining
popularity in biomedical and preclinical research, including the neurosciences.
Phylogenetically, these animals are much closer to humans than rodents. They also
display complex behaviors, including a wide range of vocalizations and social
interactions. Here, an effective stereotaxic neurosurgical procedure for
implantation of recording electrode arrays in the common marmoset is described.
This protocol also details the pre- and postoperative steps of animal care that
are required to successfully perform such a surgery. Finally, this protocol shows
an example of local field potential and spike activity recordings in a freely
behaving marmoset 1 week after the surgical procedure. Overall, this method
provides an opportunity to study the brain function in awake and freely behaving 
marmosets. The same protocol can be readily used by researchers working with
other small primates. In addition, it can be easily modified to allow other
studies requiring implants, such as stimulating electrodes, microinjections,
implantation of optrodes or guide cannulas, or ablation of discrete tissue
regions.

DOI: 10.3791/60240 
PMID: 31609344  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

