

4162. Dev Biol Stand. 1993;80:157-70.

The research programme on transmissible spongiform encephalopathies in Britain
with special reference to bovine spongiform encephalopathy.

Bradley R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Central Veterinary Laboratory, Addlestone, Surrey, UK.

Research into bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE) commenced immediately
following its discovery in November 1986. Formal epidemiological studies
commenced in June 1987 and were part of a large research programme set up mainly 
at the Central Veterinary Laboratory Weybridge and the Institute for Animal
Health, AFRC/MRC Neuropathogenesis Unit in Edinburgh. This programme also covered
the clinicopathology of BSE, transmission studies and molecular chemistry.
Research results have shown that BSE is a member of the group of diseases known
as the sub-acute spongiform encephalopathies caused by unconventional
transmissible agents and which includes scrapie of sheep, from which BSE was
probably derived, and Creutzfeldt Jakob disease (CJD) of man. The agent causing
BSE closely resembles strains of the scrapie agent but is not identical.
Spongiform encephalopathy has developed in sheep, goats, pigs, cattle, marmosets 
and mice but not hamsters following experimental inoculation of brain material
from confirmed clinical cases of BSE. BSE agent has been detected by mouse
bio-assay in brain from cows from several sources confirmed to have BSE.
Infectivity has not been detected in spleen, buffy coat, semen, muscles, placenta
and bone marrow (all following parenteral inoculation) nor in milk/mammary gland,
spleen, placenta and a variety of lymph nodes following substantial oral
exposure. This latter route successfully transmitted disease to mice with
brain/cerebrospinal fluid. The introduction of modified rendering systems, which 
did not employ hydrocarbon solvent extraction, were probably responsible for an
increase in exposure of cattle from 1981-1988 sufficient to cause the disease.
Experiments are in progress to investigate the effectiveness of different
rendering systems used in the European Community and of chemical and physical
de-activating procedures for destroying BSE and scrapie infectivity. A clear
genetic influence on disease susceptibility has been suggested but is not yet
proven. The Agricultural and Food Research Council have set up a large Biology of
Spongiform Encephalopathies Research Programme to address some of the more
fundamental unknowns of this group of diseases but it is too early to report
results. As with scrapie, no epidemiological relationship has been demonstrated
between BSE and the human diseases through the monitoring programme that has been
established by the Department of Health to detect such an occurrence. BSE
research results so far show that controls to protect animal and human health and
based initially on scrapie research findings, are sound.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT
400 WORDS)


PMID: 8270105  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

