

4189. J Neurosci. 1992 Sep;12(9):3445-55.

Changes in the cortical map of the hand following postnatal median nerve injury
in monkeys: modification of somatotopic aggregates.

Wall JT(1), Huerta MF, Kaas JH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, Medical College of Ohio, Toledo 43699.

Median nerves to the hands of 8-15-d-old marmoset monkeys were transected and
precluded from regeneration by ligation. Following periods of 0.4-1.5 years,
features of organization in the cortical area 3b hand map were assessed
neurophysiologically, and compared to features in normally reared monkeys.
Cortical features in monkeys with both histories were similar in certain
respects. (1) Receptive field organization was similar in terms of tactile
thresholds and receptive field size, continuity, and glabrous-hairy specificity. 
(2) Somatotopic organization was similar in terms of the continuity of the
glabrous representation, and progressions of receptive field shifts across some
parts of the hand map. (3) Finally, the overall size of the hand map did not
change. In contrast, other cortical features clearly differed following these
developmental histories. (1) Neurons at virtually all recording sites in normal
hand maps responded to light mechanical stimulation, whereas, following injury,
neurons at about 8% of the recording sites responded only to high-intensity
stimuli. (2) Somatotopic organization differed in terms of the presence or
absence of the representation of skin autonomously innervated by the median
nerve, the number and continuity of representations of hairy skin, and the
spatial interfacing of representations. (3) Finally, there were differences in
the areas and widths of representations of parts of the hand. The overall
impression is that there is a correspondence between the cortical features that
changed most after injury, and the features that varied most in individual normal
monkeys: in both circumstances the most variable features involved properties of 
spatial patterning across large aggregates of neurons as reflected by the size,
shape, continuity, and interfacing of representations. A hypothesis is proposed
that suggests that the cortical hand map normally consists of a number of
representations that are capable of developing and surviving somewhat
autonomously of each other. The features of spatial patterning in the mosaiclike 
map of these representations are influenced by postnatal availability of inputs
from intact hand nerves.


PMCID: PMC6575718
PMID: 1527589  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

