

4196. Am J Phys Anthropol. 1992 Aug;88(4):525-62.

Evolution of feeding niches in New World monkeys.

Rosenberger AL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Zoological Research, Smithsonian Institution, Washington, DC
20008.

The adaptive radiation of modern New World monkeys unfolded as the major lineages
diversified within different dietary-adaptive zones predicated upon a
fundamentally frugivorous habit. The broad outlines of this pattern can be seen
in the fossil record, beginning in the early Miocene. Cebids are obligate
frugivorous predators. The smallest forms (Cebuella, Callithrix) are specialized 
exudativores, and the largest (cebines) are seasonally flexible omnivores,
feeding particularly on insects (Saimiri) or "hard" foods, such as pith and palm 
nuts (Cebus), when resources are scarce. The smaller-bodied atelids (Callicebus, 
Aotus) may use insects or leaves opportunistically, but pitheciins (saki-uakaris)
specialize on seeds as their major protein source. The larger atelines (Alouatta,
Brachyteles) depend on leaves or on ripe fruit (Ateles). Locomotion, body size,
and dietary adaptations are linked: claws and small body size opened the
canopy-subcanopy niche to callitrichines; climbing and hanging, the fine-branch
setting to the atelines; large size and strength, semiprehensile tails, and
grasping thumbs, the extractive insectivory of Cebus; deliberate quadrupedalism, 
the energy-saving transport of folivorous Alouatta. Body size increases and
decreases occurred often and in parallel within guilds and lineages. Conventional
dietary categories, particularly frugivory, are inadequate for organizing the
behavioral and anatomical evidence pertinent to evolutionary adaptation. Related 
models of morphological evolution based on feeding frequencies tend to obfuscate 
the selective importance of "critical functions," responses to the
biomechanically challenging components of diet that may be determined by a
numerically small, or seasonal, dietary fraction. For fossils, body size is an
unreliable indicator of diet in the absence of detailed morphological
information. More attention needs to be given to developing techniques for
identifying and quantifying mechanically significant aspects of dental form, the 
physical properties of primate foods, their mode of access, and the cycles of
availability and nutritional value.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.1330880408 
PMID: 1503123  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

