

4243. J Periodontal Res. 1992 Mar;27(2):101-10.

Immunohistochemical localization of collagenous components in healthy periodontal
tissues of the rat and marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). I. Distribution of collagen
types I and III.

Romanos GE(1), Schröter-Kermani C, Hinz N, Wachtel HC, Bernimoulin JP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Periodontology, Dental School North, Freie Universität Berlin,
FRG.

The distribution of collagen types I and III was demonstrated in healthy
periodontal tissues of the rat and marmoset using immunofluorescent localization 
after decalcification of the maxillae and mandiblae in 0.2 N HCl. An intense
fluorescence in the alveolar bone and cementum matrix, as well as in the soft
periodontal tissue, was demonstrated with anti-collagen type I antibodies. In the
gingival connective tissue and in the periodontal ligament thick fibers of
collagen type I could be observed. The fluorescent reaction in the rat
periodontal ligament was not strong in comparison to the marmoset periodontal
ligament. Sharpey's fibers, inserting into the cementum and alveolar bone, were
also stained. On the other hand, collagen type III could not be demonstrated in
the hard periodontal tissues, but could be in the bone marrow stroma and the
incremental lines as well as around the Sharpey's fibers of the cementum, in
accordance to previous studies. In the gingival connective tissue a strong
staining was evident, especially near the basement membrane. The periodontal
ligament showed an intense fluorescence that was, in some areas, continuous with 
Sharpey's fibers inserting into the cementum. The distribution of collagen types 
I and III was demonstrated with immunohistochemical techniques in the rat and
marmoset periodontium. These results provide necessary information on healthy
tissues that will be required for future studies on the effects of pathological, 
reparative and regenerative processes.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0765.1992.tb01811.x 
PMID: 1532200  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

