

4256. Neuroscience. 1992;47(2):251-64.

A specific form of cognitive rigidity following excitotoxic lesions of the basal 
forebrain in marmosets.

Roberts AC(1), Robbins TW, Everitt BJ, Muir JL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, University of Cambridge, U.K.

The effects of N-methyl-D-aspartate-induced lesions of the basal forebrain were
studied on performance of a series of visual discrimination tests that examined a
range of cognitive functions in the marmoset. These included the ability to
attend to the various dimensional properties of stimuli and to use just one of
these properties in order to solve a discrimination (intra-dimensional shift); to
switch attention from one dimension to another (extra-dimensional shift); to
learn the reinforcement value of specific exemplars within a dimension (new
learning); and to relearn their reinforcement value following reversal of the
reward contingencies (serial reversals). Lesions of the basal forebrain did not
impair the ability either to attend selectively to the dimensional properties of 
the stimuli or to switch attention from one dimension to the other. However, the 
lesion did affect various aspects of associative learning including a transient
impairment of new learning and a marked disruption of serial reversal learning.
The reversal deficit could be characterised as a tendency to perseverate on the
previously correct stimulus and as a failure to to show the formation of a
reversal learning set. In addition, the lesion prevented disruption of
performance of a well-learned discrimination when novel exemplars from the
irrelevant dimension were introduced (probe test). It is suggested that the
functional effects of the basal forebrain lesion reflect impaired learning of
stimulus-reward associations and behavioural rigidity. The finding, however, that
there was no effect of the lesion on attentional set-shifting suggests that any
loss of inhibitory control was specific to the level of stimulus-response or
stimulus-reward associations, inhibitory control at the level of attentional
selection remaining intact. The similarity of the effects of damage to the basal 
forebrain to those seen following damage to the orbitofrontal cortex and the
amygdala are discussed in the context of the close anatomical and functional
relationships that exist among these three structures.

DOI: 10.1016/0306-4522(92)90241-s 
PMID: 1641123  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

