

426. Am J Primatol. 2019 Sep;81(9):e23057. doi: 10.1002/ajp.23057. Epub 2019 Sep 30.

Baseline cortisol levels and social behavior differ as a function of handedness
in marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Vaughan E(1), Le A(1), Casey M(2), Workman KP(2), Lacreuse A(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Veterinary and Animal Sciences, University of Massachusetts,
Amherst, Massachusetts.
(2)Psychological and Brain Sciences, University of Massachusetts, Amherst,
Massachusetts.
(3)Center for Neuroendocrine Studies, University of Massachusetts, Amherst,
Massachusetts.

Population hand preferences are rare in nonhuman primates, but individual hand
preferences are consistent over a lifetime and considered to reflect an
individual's preference to use a particular hemisphere when engaged in a specific
task. Previous findings in marmosets have indicated that left-handed individuals 
tend to be more fearful than their right-handed counterparts. Based on these
findings, we tested the hypotheses that left-handed marmosets are (a) more
reactive to a social stressor and (b) are slower than right-handed marmosets in
acquiring a reversal learning task. We examined the hand preference of 27 male
and female marmosets (ages of 4-7 years old) previously tested in a social
separation task and a reversal learning task. Hand preference was determined via 
a simple reaching task. In the social separation task, monkeys were separated
from their partner and the colony for a single 7-hr session. Urinary cortisol
levels and behavior were assessed at baseline, during the separation and 24 hr
postseparation. Hand preferences were equally distributed between left (n = 10), 
right-handed (n = 10), and ambidextrous (n = 7) individuals. The separation phase
was associated with an increase in cortisol levels and behavioral changes that
were similar across handedness groups. However, cortisol levels at baseline were 
positively correlated with right-handedness, and this relationship was stronger
in females than in males. In addition, the occurrence of social behaviors (pre-
and postseparation) was positively correlated with right-handedness in both
sexes. Baseline cortisol levels did not correlate significantly with social
behavior. Acquisition of the reversals was poorer in females than males but did
not differ as a function of handedness. We conclude that (a) both stress
reactivity and cognitive flexibility are similar across handedness groups and (b)
left-handers exhibit less social behavior and have lower basal cortisol levels
than ambidextrous and right-handed subjects. The underlying causes for these
differences remain to be established.

© 2019 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.23057 
PMID: 31566763  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

