

4265. Scand J Immunol Suppl. 1992;11:118-22.

Anti-sperm and anti-ovum vaccines: the selection of candidate antigens and the
outcome of preclinical studies.

Isahakia MA(1), Bambra CS.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Primate Research, National Museums of Kenya, Karen, Nairobi.

A clear conceptual basis for anti-sperm and other modes of immunological birth
control exists in spite of the limited basic research done on surface antigens of
sperm or egg. In the normal physiological condition, the immune system does not
respond to sperm, egg or fetus. Compared with anti-egg or anti-fetus
immunocontraception, an anti-sperm vaccine has two theoretical advantages. First 
it would work in both males and females; second, it would not raise problems of
autoimmunity in the female if a sperm-specific protein is used. However, for the 
development of such contraceptive vaccines the following scientific questions
need to be resolved: (1) what surface protein to use as an antigen; (2) what
adjuvant to use in humans for an anti-fertility vaccine; (3) how to maintain a
high titre; (4) how the contraceptive effect will be terminated; and (5) what are
the potential side-effects.

PIP: Certain sperm antigens are auto- or isoimmunogenic, and naturally occurring 
sperm antibodies have been implicated in 10-15% of unexplained human infertility.
Thus, efforts to develop an immunocontraceptive for human application have
targeted sperm antigens. The World Health Organization Task Force on
Contraceptive Vaccines designated the human sperm SP-10 as a primary vaccine
candidate. The presence of SP-10 mRNA was demonstrated in baboons and macaques,
and it is an ideal primate model for evaluating human efficacy. At a workshop on 
worldwide research on all monoclonal antibodies against sperm, HS-11 and HS-63
were selected for further evaluation because of their high specificity and
significant anti-fertility effects. Isoenzyme LDH-C4 is a primary sperm antigen: 
it provokes antibodies that are absolutely cell specific and do not cross-react
with somatic LDH isozymes. Immunization of both males and females with purified
LDH-C4 results in an immune response and antibodies suppress fertility in female 
mice, rabbits and baboons. The PH-20 protein from guinea pigs has a required
function in sperm-zona binding, and a 100% effective contraception is obtained
when either male or female guinea pigs are immunized with purified PH-20.
Regarding zona pellucida antigens (ZP), the porcine zona pellucida contains the
major glycoprotein families identified as ZP1, ZP2 and ZP3. In a human in vitro
fertilization system, only antibodies against ZP3 completely suppressed sperm-egg
interaction. Passive administration of anti-zona pellucida antibodies results in 
long-term reversible contraception. The development of antigens capable of
evoking an immune response, thereby preventing fertility without ovarian
histopathology, is under way. A zona pellucida contraceptive vaccine containing
8-cell, but not T-cell, zona pellucida epitopes may prevent ovarian pathology.
DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-3083.1992.tb01633.x 
PMID: 1514025  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

