

4272. Reprod Fertil Dev. 1992;4(5):467-80.

Antibodies, implantation and embryo survival.

Heap RB(1), Taussig MJ, Wang MW, Whyte A.

Author information: 
(1)AFRC Institute of Animal Physiology and Genetics Research, Babraham,
Cambridge, UK.

The diverse strategies adopted among species for the maintenance of luteal
function converge to meet the indispensable requirement for this hormone
particularly at the time of onset of implantation. What has emerged from
immunization studies is the difference that exists between various species in the
effects of progesterone depletion. The findings affirm the uterus as a primary
site of progesterone action in the preimplantation period of gestation in the
mouse, whereas in the hamster the positive feedback by progesterone on pituitary 
luteotrophin secretion is important in maintaining luteal function and hormone
secretion at a level necessary for uterine preparation. The impact of
progesterone in the rat seems to be established within 48 h after fertilization, 
whereas in the ferret the hormone's action ensures a suitable uterine environment
in which the early embryo can flourish. Its effects in early pregnancy in the
marmoset are ambiguous from the present studies unless it emerges that target
organ responses are tuned to low concentrations of active steroid. However, the
discoveries in mice of a conserved family of immunoglobulin genes used
exclusively by immunogenic forms of progesterone conjugated to proteins to
stimulate antibody production, and of antibody binding to the uterine epithelium,
reveal systems potentially inimical for embryo survival. The endometrial
expression of the proto-oncogene erb-A at a time when the embryo has not yet
arrived in the uterus, and of antibody-binding to the uterine epithelium, are
early maternal responses whose significance require closer examination. The
present findings support the hypothesis that the primary site of action of
progesterone during the preimplantation period differs between species, and that 
it is not only the mother that recognizes, but the embryo that initiates early
changes before the onset of implantation 'in the bed of soil that nourishes it', 
a symbiosis that may yet prove to be a common feature of the adoption of
viviparity as a preferred mode of reproduction.

DOI: 10.1071/rd9920467 
PMID: 1338606  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

