

4307. J Neurosci. 1991 Jun;11(6):1485-95.

Olfactory bulb granule cell aggregates: morphological evidence for
interperikaryal electrotonic coupling via gap junctions.

Reyher CK(1), Lübke J, Larsen WJ, Hendrix GM, Shipley MT, Baumgarten HG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Max-Planck-Institut für Biophysikalische Chemie,
Göttingen, Germany.

Anaxonic interneurons of the granule cell type in the mammalian main olfactory
bulb (MOB) are characterized by prominent membrane specializations, which include
reciprocal, interdendritic chemical and electrical synapses; however, the latter 
are thought to be restricted to the external plexiform layer (EPL) and connect
granule-mitral- and granule-tufted-cell dendrites (Landis et al., 1974). The
present study focuses on interperikaryal membrane specializations between
tangentially oriented aggregates of granule microneurons in the lamina granularis
interna (IGL). Both infraprimate (Rattus norvegicus, Gerbillus perpallidus) and
primate species (Callithrix jacchus) were studied using the following methods:
(1) transmission electron microscopy (TEM), (2) freeze-fracture analysis, (3)
light and TEM immunohistochemistry using affinity-purified antibodies directed
against the connexin-32 or connexin-43 carboxy tail fragment of the gap-junction 
protein (GJP), and (4) intracellular Lucifer yellow injections in fixed tissue
(LYF technique). Freeze-fracture replicas of the MOB-IGL showed that adjacent
granule cell perikarya have numerous particle aggregates on the cytoplasmic
membrane; in terms of their structure and arrangement, such particles are
characteristic of gap junctions. The existence of junctional membranes was
substantiated by application of antibodies against GJP demonstrating punctate
immunoreactivity, frequently confined to the interperikaryal plasmalemmae of
granule cells in the IGL and their dendritic processes in the EPL. Upon TEM
analysis, GJP-like immunoreactivity was additionally found in membranous
organelles, including Golgi apparati and associated vesicular components. In
order to test the permeability of identified membrane specializations, the LYF
technique was used, which resulted in bright fluorescence of the perikaryal and
dendritic components of the transsomatically injected neuron and staining of
neighboring neurons with similar morphology. These findings imply that small
molecules can diffuse across the interperikaryal membrane specializations. The
existence of gap junctions between granule cell perikarya suggests that there is 
a significant, low-resistance electrical transmission between aggregated granule 
cells. This coupling might permit synchronization of neural discharge among small
aggregates of these neurons. Gap junctions between granule cells may also serve
signaling functions associated with the protracted period of granule cell
development.


PMCID: PMC6575397
PMID: 1904478  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

