

435. Nat Rev Neurosci. 2019 Oct;20(10):593-608. doi: 10.1038/s41583-019-0212-7. Epub
2019 Sep 6.

The brain's default network: updated anatomy, physiology and evolving insights.

Buckner RL(1)(2)(3)(4), DiNicola LM(5)(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA, USA.
randy_buckner@harvard.edu.
(2)Center for Brain Science, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA, USA.
randy_buckner@harvard.edu.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA, USA.
randy_buckner@harvard.edu.
(4)Athinoula A. Martinos Center for Biomedical Imaging, Massachusetts General
Hospital, Boston, MA, USA. randy_buckner@harvard.edu.
(5)Department of Psychology, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA, USA.
(6)Center for Brain Science, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA, USA.

Discoveries over the past two decades demonstrate that regions distributed
throughout the association cortex, often called the default network, are
suppressed during tasks that demand external attention and are active during
remembering, envisioning the future and making social inferences. This Review
describes progress in understanding the organization and function of networks
embedded within these association regions. Detailed high-resolution analyses of
single individuals suggest that the default network is not a single network, as
historically described, but instead comprises multiple interwoven networks. The
multiple networks share a common organizational motif (also evident in marmoset
and macaque anatomical circuits) that might support a general class of processing
function dependent on internally constructed rather than externally constrained
representations, with each separate interwoven network specialized for a distinct
processing domain. Direct neuronal recordings in humans and monkeys reveal
evidence for competitive relationships between the internally and externally
oriented networks. Findings from rodent studies suggest that the thalamus might
be essential to controlling which networks are engaged through specialized
thalamic reticular neurons, including antagonistic subpopulations. These
association networks (and presumably thalamocortical circuits) are expanded in
humans and might be particularly vulnerable to dysregulation implicated in
mental illness.

DOI: 10.1038/s41583-019-0212-7 
PMID: 31492945  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

