

4359. Arteriosclerosis. 1990 Jul-Aug;10(4):625-32.

Isolation and characterization of several plasma apolipoproteins of common
marmoset monkey.

Crook D(1), Weisgraber KH, Rall SC Jr, Mahley RW.

Author information: 
(1)Gladstone Foundation Laboratories for Cardiovascular Disease, Department of
Pathology, University of California, San Francisco 94140.

To explore the potential of the common marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus) as a 
model for human plasma lipoprotein metabolism, several marmoset apolipoproteins
were isolated and characterized in this study. Based on several properties,
including molecular weight, amino acid composition, and sequence, the marmoset
apolipoproteins are strikingly similar to human apolipoprotein (apo) A-I, A-II,
C-III, and A-IV. The first 54 residues of marmoset apo A-I showed 87% sequence
identity with the corresponding region of human apo A-I. Amino-terminal sequence 
analysis of a minor basic apo A-I isoform revealed that it contained an
amino-terminal hexapeptide extension (Arg-His-Phe-Gln-Gln-) identical to that
found in human proapo A-I. Like apo A-II in most nonhuman primates, marmoset
apo-A-II differed from human apo A-II in that it did not contain cysteine and
therefore existed as a monomer. The complete amino acid sequence of marmoset apo 
A-II was deduced. The protein contains 77 amino acids, as does human apo A-II,
and showed an 82% identity with its human equivalent. In both species, apo C-III 
and E had similar amino-terminal sequences and amino acid compositions. Like
human apo E, marmoset apo E contained minor sialylated isoforms. However, unlike 
human apo C-III, no sialyated isoforms of marmoset apo C-III were observed. In
addition, the marmoset possessed an apolipoprotein whose molecular weight and
amino acid composition were similar to those of human apo A-IV. The close
structural similarities between corresponding marmoset and human apolipoproteins 
indicate that the marmoset monkey will be useful as a model for human lipoprotein
metabolism.

DOI: 10.1161/01.atv.10.4.625 
PMID: 2114867  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

