

4375. J Comp Neurol. 1990 Jan 15;291(3):468-89.

Morphology of neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive neurons in the cat olfactory bulb and
olfactory peduncle: postnatal development and species comparison.

Sanides-Kohlrausch C(1), Wahle P.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck Institut für Biophysikalische Chemie, Abt. Neurobiologie,
Göttingen, Federal Republic of Germany.

The distribution and morphology of Neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive (NPY-ir) neurons
in the olfactory bulb and the olfactory peduncle was studied in the adult cat and
rat, and the common marmoset Callithrix jacchus. Significant species differences 
were not observed. In all three species, the population of NPY-ir neurons is
localized in the white matter extending from the main olfactory bulb to the
border of the striatum. The neurons are characterized by a conspicuously looping 
axonal ramification pattern with some major collaterals running toward the
olfactory bulb and others running toward the internal olfactory tract. The
former, ipsilateral projection terminates in the granule cell layer of the main
and accessory olfactory bulb and in layer II/III of the anterior olfactory
nucleus. Reconstruction of the latter projection has revealed that the fibers are
continuous with the olfactory limb of the anterior commissure and the anterior
commissure proper suggesting a commissural contralateral projection. The analysis
of the postnatal development of the cat NPY neuron system supports this
assumption in a very clear-cut way. In young animals growing fibers are observed 
to cross the brachium of the commissure. The NPY neuron system develops
postnatally. The maximum cell number is reached during the third postnatal week. 
The appearance of more and more NPY-ir neurons slightly precedes the formation of
the terminal fields and of the fiber projection in the internal olfactory tract. 
The density of this early fiber projection by far exceeds the fiber density
observed in the adult. Later in development the fiber density in the olfactory
limb and the anterior commissure becomes considerably reduced. In contrast, the
plexus density in the anterior olfactory nucleus and the granule cell layer of
the main and accessory olfactory bulb undergoes only a slight reduction, and the 
NPY-ir cell number remains roughly constant. These observations suggest that the 
ipsilateral NPY-ir projection remains largely unchanged, in contrast to the
contralateral projection, which exists to a large extent only for the first four 
postnatal months. The observation that the NPY neuron system gives rise to a
contralateral projection does not support a classification of NPY neurons as
short axon cells.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.902910312 
PMID: 2298945  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

