

4404. J Electron Microsc Tech. 1989 Aug;12(4):331-42.

Immunohistochemical distribution and colocalization of regulatory peptides in the
carotid body.

Heym C(1), Kummer W.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Anatomie und Zellbiologie, Universität Heidelberg, Federal
Republic of Germany.

Current investigations on the immunohistochemical occurrence and co-occurrence of
biogenic polypeptides in the mammalian carotid body were reviewed and extended by
our own recent findings. The family of chromogranins and related peptides in
glomus cells appears to have a widespread interspecies distribution, whereas
other peptides investigated occur in a species-specific pattern. Immunoreactivity
to antisera against opioids, which derive from the proenkephalin sequence,
appears to be present in glomus cells of the rabbit, cat, dog, and a shrew.
Conversely, glomus cells of pig and guinea pig predominantly are immunoreactive
to cleavage products of prodynorphin, which co-occur in some cells with substance
P and met-enkephalin-arg-phe, respectively. In the rat and Callithrix jacchus,
opioid immunoreactivity is present in nerve fibres but not in glomus cells.
Immunoreactivity to other peptides, such as neurotensin, cholecystokinin,
neuropeptide Y, and galanin, is found only in one or two particular species.
Neurotensin immunolabelling occurs in beagle dog glomus cells, which are known to
lack substance P. Cholecystokinin immunoreactivity is present in glomus cells of 
dog and Callithrix, and co-exists with chromogranin A, neuropeptide Y, and
substance P. Substance P appears to exist in both carotid body glomus cells and
nerve fibres. Substance P immunoreactivity is present in glomus cells of all
species investigated, except dog. Coexistence of substance P and calcitonin
gene-related peptide (CGRP) is demonstrated in nerve fibres of the guinea pig
carotid body, which originate in the petrosal and jugular ganglia. Other peptides
visualized immunohistochemically in mammalian carotid body nerve fibres are
vasoactive intestinal peptide and neuropeptide Y. The functional significance of 
the various peptides present in the carotid body is discussed.

DOI: 10.1002/jemt.1060120406 
PMID: 2671303  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

