

441. J Neural Eng. 2020 Jan 14;17(1):016031. doi: 10.1088/1741-2552/ab4104.

Spinal cord neural interfacing in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Prins NW(1), Mylavarapu R, Shoup AM, Debnath S, Prasad A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, University of Miami, 1251 Memorial Dr,
MEA 203, Coral Gables, FL 33146, United States of America.

OBJECTIVE: Spinal cord injury remains an ailment with no comprehensive cure, and 
affected patients suffer from a greatly diminished quality of life. This large
population could significantly benefit from prosthetic technologies to replace
missing limbs, reanimate nonfunctional limbs, and enable new modes of
technologies to restore muscle control and function. While cortically driven
brain machine interfaces have achieved great success in interfacing with an
external device to restore lost functions, interfacing with the spinal cord can
provide an additional site to record motor control signals, which can have its
own advantages, despite challenges from using a smaller non-human primate (NHP)
model. The goal of this study is to develop such a spinal cord neural interface
to record motor signals from the high cervical levels of the spinal cord in a
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) model. Approach and main results. Detailed
methods are discussed for this smaller NHP model that includes behavioral
training, surgical methods for electrode placement, connector placement and wire 
handling, electrode specifications and modifications for accessing high cervical 
level interneurons and motorneurons. The study also discusses the methods and
challenges involved in behavioral multi-channel extracellular recording from the 
marmoset spinal cord, including the major recording failure mechanisms
encountered during the study.
SIGNIFICANCE: Marmosets provide a good step between rodent and larger NHP models 
due to their small size, ease of handling, cognitive abilities, and similarities 
to other primate motor systems. The study shows the feasibility of recording
spinal cord signals and using marmosets as a smaller NHP model in behavioral
neuroscience studies. Interfacing with the spinal cord in chronically implanted
animals can provide useful information about how motor control signals within the
spinal cord are transformed to cause limb movements.

DOI: 10.1088/1741-2552/ab4104 
PMCID: PMC6960332
PMID: 31480029  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

