

4423. Endocrinology. 1989 Apr;124(4):1669-77.

Developmental changes in luteinizing hormone/human chorionic gonadotropin
steroidogenic responsiveness in marmoset granulosa cells: effects of
follicle-stimulating hormone and androgens.

Shaw HJ(1), Hillier SG, Hodges JK.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Zoology, Zoological Society of London, United Kingdom.

Factors regulating LH/hCG responsiveness in primate granulosa cells were examined
in the marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus). Granulosa cells were isolated and
pooled from small antral (0.5-1.0 mm) and large preovulatory (greater than or
equal to 2 mm) follicles from mid- to late follicular phase ovaries of cyclic
marmosets. The cells from small and large follicles were cultured in serum-free
medium for 48 h in the absence or presence of increasing concentrations of hCG
(0.1-100 ng/ml) with or without 0.1 microM androgen [testosterone or 5
alpha-dihydrotestosterone (DHT]). Granulosa cells from small follicles were also 
cultured in the absence or presence of a constant concentration of human FSH (30 
ng/ml) with or without androgen for 48 h before exposure to hCG for an additional
48 h. Steroidogenic responsiveness was assessed by measuring progesterone
accumulation in culture medium and aromatase activity in washed monolayers.
Granulosa cells from large follicles showed dose-dependent increases in both
progesterone accumulation and aromatase activity in response to treatment with
hCG. In contrast, granulosa cells from small follicles were unresponsive to hCG. 
However, pretreatment of granulosa cells from small follicles for 48 h with FSH
stimulated hCG responsiveness. The effects of both testosterone and DHT on
hCG-stimulated aromatase activity and progesterone accumulation by granulosa
cells from large preovulatory follicles were inhibitory. Testosterone and DHT
also suppressed basal (no hCG) progesterone accumulation in these cells, but had 
no effect on basal aromatase activity. The effects of androgens on FSH-induced
hCG responsiveness in immature granulosa cells were variable. The results show a 
development-related increase in marmoset granulosa cell responsiveness to LH/hCG 
and provide evidence that FSH and androgens interact to regulate the onset and
expression of this critical event during preovulatory follicular development in
the primate ovary.

DOI: 10.1210/endo-124-4-1669 
PMID: 2494036  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

