

444. PLoS One. 2019 Aug 27;14(8):e0221164. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0221164.
eCollection 2019.

A versatile toolbox for knock-in gene targeting based on the Multisite Gateway
technology.

Yoshimatsu S(1)(2), Sone T(1), Nakajima M(1), Sato T(1), Okochi R(1), Ishikawa
M(1), Nakamura M(1), Sasaki E(3)(4), Shiozawa S(1), Okano H(1)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, School of Medicine, Keio University, Shinjuku-ku,
Tokyo, Japan.
(2)Laboratory for Proteolytic Neuroscience, RIKEN Center for Brain Science, Wako 
City, Saitama, Japan.
(3)Central Institute for Experimental Animals, Kawasaki City, Kanagawa, Japan.
(4)Laboratory for Marmoset Neural Architecture, RIKEN Center for Brain Science,
Wako City, Saitama, Japan.

Knock-in (KI) gene targeting can be employed for a wide range of applications in 
stem cell research. However, vectors for KI require multiple complicated
processes for construction, including multiple times of digestion/ligation steps 
and extensive restriction mapping, which has imposed limitations for the robust
applicability of KI gene targeting. To circumvent this issue, here we introduce
versatile and systematic methods for generating KI vectors by molecular cloning. 
In this approach, we employed the Multisite Gateway technology, an efficient in
vitro DNA recombination system using proprietary sequences and enzymes. KI vector
construction exploiting these methods requires only efficient steps, such as PCR 
and recombination, enabling robust KI gene targeting. We show that combinatorial 
usage of the KI vectors generated using this method and site-specific nucleases
enabled the precise integration of fluorescent protein genes in multiple loci of 
human and common marmoset (marmoset; Callithrix jacchus) pluripotent stem cells. 
The methods described here will facilitate the usage of KI technology and
ultimately help to accelerate stem cell research.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0221164 
PMCID: PMC6711506
PMID: 31454364  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: T.S. is currently a paid employee of Takara Bio
Inc., but all the experiments in this study were performed while he was in Keio
University, where he had no conflicts of interest with the company. H.O. serves
as a paid scientific advisor at SanBio Co. Ltd. and K Pharma Inc. The other
authors declare neither financial nor non-financial competing interests. This
does not alter the authors' adherence to PLOS ONE policies on sharing data and
materials.

