

4446. J Endocrinol. 1988 Nov;119(2):249-55.

Early secretion of chorionic gonadotrophin by marmoset embryos in vivo and in
vitro.

Hearn JP(1), Hodges JK, Gems S.

Author information: 
(1)MRC/AFRC Comparative Physiology Research Group, Institute of Zoology, London.

The control mechanisms of early pregnancy in primates differ from those in
non-primate species in the early secretion of chorionic gonadotrophin (CG) by the
embryo and in the support of the corpus luteum. This study describes the
initiation of secretion of CG by the embryo of the marmoset monkey examined in
vivo and in vitro. A bioassay for gonadotrophin, which did not distinguish
between CG and LH, was adapted and validated for the marmoset. A system of embryo
culture was developed whereby embryos were grown from morula/blastocyst stages
until at least the differentiation of the trophoblast and yolk sac, facilitated
by the embryo attaching to a monolayer of marmoset fibroblast cells.
Gonadotrophin concentrations were measured in the peripheral circulation of
marmosets during precisely timed stages during the first 84 days of the 144-day
gestation period, providing a profile of secretion that was maintained at high
levels for longer than the profile seen in Old World primates, including man. A
clear increase above baseline levels was seen by day 17 after ovulation,
implantation commencing in the marmoset on days 11-13. Gonadotrophin was secreted
by embryos in culture from the time of attachment in vitro, but there was no
clear evidence of secretion before attachment. Levels of gonadotrophin secreted
by embryos in vitro increased rapidly, reaching a maximum mean production rate of
90 mIU/24 h within 4 days after attachment. The experimental systems developed
here will allow the examination of the local function of CG at the implantation
site, intra-embryonic control of its secretion and its possible involvement in
embryonic development.

DOI: 10.1677/joe.0.1190249 
PMID: 3143797  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

