

4460. Am J Pathol. 1988 Jun;131(3):477-83.

Characterization of colonic cellular glycoconjugates in colitis and cancer-prone 
tamarins versus colitis and cancer-resistant primates.

Moore R(1), King N, Alroy J.

Author information: 
(1)New England Regional Primate Research Center, Southborough, Massachusetts.

Differences in colonic secretory glycoconjugates (ie, mucin) between normal and
ulcerative colitis-prone patients have been noted. Similar differences may occur 
in a corresponding primate model, the cotton-top tamarin (CTT), Saguinus oedipus,
a New World monkey which suffers from spontaneous chronic colitis and colon
cancer. Lectin reagents were used to characterize and compare colonic cell
surface, cytoplasmic, and secretory glycoconjugates of 9 clinically healthy
cotton-top tamarins, 7 colitis-susceptible, cancer-resistant tamarins (Callithrix
jacchus, Saguinus fuscicollis), and 8 colitis and cancer-resistant primates
(Aotus trivirgatus, Saimiri sciureus, Macaca fascicularis, and Macaca mulatta).
Paraffin-embedded colonic sections were labeled with ten different biotinylated
lectins and visualized by the avidin-biotin peroxidase (ABC) method. Significant 
differences were demonstrated in the pattern of lectin staining between the
colitis-resistant and colitis-prone groups of primates. The differences were
noted with Griffonia simplicifolia-I (GS-I), Dolichos biflorus agglutinin (DBA), 
peanut agglutinin (PNA) before and after neuraminidase, Ricinus communis
agglutinin-I (RCA-I), soybean agglutinin (SBA), Ulex europaeus agglutinin-I
(UEA-I), wheat germ agglutinin (WGA), and succinylated WGA (S-WGA). Significant
differences between the CTT and phylogenetically related colitis-prone but
cancer-resistant tamarins were demonstrated with SBA, UEA-I, and PNA after
desialylation with neuraminidase. These results suggest that differences in
colonic cellular glycoconjugates between colitis- and cancer-susceptible species 
versus colitis-susceptible, cancer-resistant species may be associated with risk 
of cancer.


PMCID: PMC1880715
PMID: 3132857  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

