

4477. Neuropathol Appl Neurobiol. 1988 Mar-Apr;14(2):93-104.

The brain in iodine deficiency.

Hetzel BS(1), Chavadej J, Potter BJ.

Author information: 
(1)CSIRO Division of Human Nutrition, Adelaide, Australia.

Global descriptive, epidemiological studies have established the relation of
iodine deficiency to endemic cretinism which, in its fully developed form, is
characterized by mental deficiency, deaf mutism and spastic diplegia. However, a 
second less common variant--myxedematous or hypothyroid cretinism--is
characterized by severe hypothyroidism with dwarfism. Mixed forms occur. It has
been shown that both conditions can be prevented by correction of the iodine
deficiency before pregnancy. Cretinism and development--now termed iodine
deficiency disorders (IDD). A number of recently developed animal models
establish the effect of severe iodine deficiency on brain development. These
include the rat, the marmoset monkey and the sheep. These models are all
characterized by the production of severe maternal and fetal hypothyroidism which
is associated with effects on the maturation of the cerebral cortex and
cerebellum. There was a reduced brain weight with a reduced number of cells as
indicated by reduced DNA, a greater density of cells in the cerebral cortex and
reduced cell acquisition in the cerebellum. Studies of the mechanisms involved
have been carried out in the sheep. The findings reveal significant, though less 
severe, effects of fetal thyroidectomy (late gestation) and a significant effect 
of maternal thyroidectomy on brain development in mid-gestation. A combination of
maternal and fetal thyroidectomy has similar but more severe effects than iodine 
deficiency. In the light of current knowledge of the embryology of the brain it
is suggested that the critical time for the effect of iodine deficiency is the
mid-trimester (14-18 weeks) when the neurons of the cerebral cortex and basal
ganglia are formed and could be damaged by the effect of iodine deficiency on
maternal thyroid function. There is now recent evidence indicating transfer of
maternal thyroxine across the placental barrier early in pregnancy. In this way, 
neurological cretinism might be produced. Impaired fetal thyroid function would
follow in the third trimester and augment the effect of reduced maternal thyroid 
function. Impaired fetal thyroid function alone could produce the hypothyroid
form of cretinism. Further experimental studies, particularly into the postnatal 
period, are required to substantiate these suggestions. Apart from this, further 
study of the effects of iodine deficiency on brain development at the subcellular
and cellular levels are likely to be most productive.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2990.1988.tb00873.x 
PMID: 3041304  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

