

454. J Neurophysiol. 2019 Oct 1;122(4):1502-1517. doi: 10.1152/jn.00389.2019. Epub
2019 Aug 7.

Behavioral training of marmosets and electrophysiological recording from the
cerebellum.

Sedaghat-Nejad E(1), Herzfeld DJ(1), Hage P(1), Karbasi K(1), Palin T(1), Wang
X(2), Shadmehr R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Computational Motor Control, Department of Biomedical
Engineering Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland.
(2)Laboratory for Auditory Neurophysiology Department of Biomedical Engineering
Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is a promising new model for study of
neurophysiological basis of behavior in primates. Like other primates, it relies 
on saccadic eye movements to monitor and explore its environment. Previous
reports have demonstrated some success in training marmosets to produce
goal-directed actions in the laboratory. However, the number of trials per
session has been relatively small, thus limiting the utility of marmosets as a
model for behavioral and neurophysiological studies. In this article, we report
the results of a series of new behavioral training and neurophysiological
protocols aimed at increasing the number of trials per session while recording
from the cerebellum. To improve the training efficacy, we designed a precisely
calibrated food regulation regime that motivates the subjects to perform saccade 
tasks, resulting in ~1,000 reward-driven trials on a daily basis. We then
developed a multichannel recording system that uses imaging to target a desired
region of the cerebellum, allowing for simultaneous isolation of multiple
Purkinje cells in the vermis. In this report, we describe 1) the design and
surgical implantation of a computer tomography (CT)-guided, subject-specific head
post, 2) the design of a CT- and MRI-guided alignment tool for trajectory
guidance of electrodes mounted on an absolute encoder microdrive, 3) development 
of a protocol for behavioral training of subjects, and 4) simultaneous recordings
from pairs of Purkinje cells during a saccade task.NEW & NOTEWORTHY Marmosets
present the opportunity to investigate genetically based neurological disease in 
primates, in particular, diseases that affect social behaviors, vocal
communication, and eye movements. All of these behaviors depend on the integrity 
of the cerebellum. We present training methods that better motivate the subjects,
allowing for improved performance, and we also present electrophysiological
techniques that precisely target the subject's cerebellum, allowing for
simultaneous isolation of multiple Purkinje cells.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00389.2019 
PMCID: PMC6843097
PMID: 31389752  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

