

4590. J Hirnforsch. 1986;27(3):343-67.

Afferent connections of the substantia innominata/basal nucleus of Meynert in
carnivores and primates.

Irle E, Markowitsch HJ.

Afferent connections to the substantia innominata/nucleus basalis complex of
monkeys and cats were traced by using the method of retrograde transport of
horseradish peroxidase (HRP). Altogether ten injections of HRP were performed in 
four monkeys (Saimiri sciureus, Callithrix jacchus, Galago senegalensis) and in
four cats, with either vertical or oblique needle approaches. The entire brains
excluding the olfactory bulbs and the cerebellum were then screened for labeled
neurons. In both monkey and cat brains, many retrogradely labeled neurons could
be detected in the amygdala, hypothalamus, midline thalamus, zona incerta, and
the fields of Forel. Further but weaker labeling occurred in the medial septal
nucleus, diagonal band of Broca, olfactory tubercle, paraventricular, anterior,
mediodorsal, and central lateral thalamic nuclei, lateral habenula, ventral
tegmental area of Tsai, interpeduncular nucleus, parabrachial, raphe, dorsal
tegmental nucleus and the locus caeruleus. Cortically, prefrontal, insular,
entorhinal, prepiriform, and periamygdaloid areas of both species showed
considerable labeling as well as the whole temporal lobe of the monkeys used. The
perirhinal and basal temporal cortex of all cats showed moderate labeling. In
both monkeys and cats, extremely scarce labeling occurred within the cingulate,
retrosplenial, and subicular cortex. From an anatomical point of view, the
manifold connections of the substantia innominata/basal nucleus of Meynert found 
in this study underscore the participation of these nuclear groups in
motivational, emotional, and cognitive (e.g. mnemonic) functions. Considering the
widespread cortical efferents of this complex, it is suggested that the
substantia innominata/nucleus basalis of Meynert serves the transmission of
information arising within the limbic system to the whole neocortex.


PMID: 3093564  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

