

465. Behav Processes. 2019 Oct;167:103899. doi: 10.1016/j.beproc.2019.103899. Epub
2019 Jul 18.

Personality and lateralization in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Tomassetti D(1), Caracciolo S(1), Manciocco A(2), Chiarotti F(1), Vitale A(1), De
Filippis B(3).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Behavioural Sciences and Mental Health, Istituto Superiore di
Sanità, Roma, Italy.
(2)Institute of Cognitive Sciences and Technologies, Consiglio Nazionale delle
Ricerche, Roma, Italy.
(3)Center for Behavioural Sciences and Mental Health, Istituto Superiore di
Sanità, Roma, Italy. Electronic address: bianca.defilippis@iss.it.

Specialization of the left and right hemispheres to control behavioural responses
may represent one of the mechanisms underlying individual differences in
personality structure, as well as the preferential use of one hand. The present
study investigated the relationship between personality and hand preference in
common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus), a little New World monkey that presents
highly consistent and stable individual hand preferences for simple reaching. To 
address this issue, data on 56 different behaviours from the species' behavioural
repertoire were measured in 10 different laboratory tests and during observations
under social conditions on 16 adult common marmosets. Stable behavioural
variables were aggregated a priori into 13 personality traits. Exploratory Factor
Analysis (EFA) on personality traits was carried out to verify the presence of
major personality factors, and their relationship with direction and strength of 
individual hand preferences was assessed by multiple regression, taking into
account sex and age of the subjects. The largest number of species-specific
behaviours so far investigated in this species was taken into account and robust 
temporal stability between two testing periods was verified. We confirm that
common marmosets are characterized by specific and stable personality profiles. A
single personality factor, accounting for about 38% of the total variance, was
found by EFA, that describes the interest towards unusual and new experiences and
resembles the human Openness domain. The strength of the hand preference was
found to be predicted by this personality factor, that we named Inquisitiveness. 
Present results highlight common marmoset as a useful primate model for the study
of the relationship between personality and lateralization.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.beproc.2019.103899 
PMID: 31326510  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

