

485. Am J Primatol. 2019 Jul;81(7):e23018. doi: 10.1002/ajp.23018. Epub 2019 Jun 13.

Trait variation and trait stability in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus)
inhabiting ecologically distinct habitats in northeastern Brazil.

Garber PA(1), Caselli CB(2), McKenney AC(3), Abreu F(2), De la Fuente MF(2),
Araújo A(4), de Fatima Arruda M(4), Souto A(5), Schiel N(2), Bicca-Marques JC(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anthropology and Program in Ecology, Evolution, and Conservation
Biology, University of Illinois, Urbana, Illinois.
(2)Departamento de Biologia, Laboratório de Etologia Teórica e Aplicada,
Universidade Federal Rural de Pernambuco, Recife, PE, Brazil.
(3)Natural Resources and Environmental Sciences, University of Illinois, Urbana, 
Illinois.
(4)Departamento e Fisiologia, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Norte, Natal,
RN, Brazil.
(5)Departamento de Zoologia, Laboratório de Etologia, Universidade Federal de
Pernambuco, Recife, PE, Brazil.
(6)Escola de Ciências, Laboratório de Primatologia, Pontifícia Universidade
Católica do Rio Grande do Sul, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil.

Understanding the set of factors that promote and constrain a species' ability to
exploit ecologically distinct habitats is central for addressing questions of
intraspecific variability in behavior and morphology. In this study, we compared 
newly collected data with published data on body measurements, group size and
composition, daily path length, home range, and reproductive output in wild
common marmosets naturally inhabiting two contrasting environments in
northeastern Brazil: the Atlantic Forest (AF), which is characterized by high
biodiversity and reduced seasonality in food availability and the Caatinga (CAT),
which is characterized by a severe hot and dry season lasting from 5 to 11
months, drought-resistant plant species, and reduced primary productivity.
Despite marked differences in ecological conditions, CAT marmosets and AF
marmosets differed minimally in daily path length, home range, reproductive
output, and infant survivorship. CAT marmosets were found to live in smaller
groups containing fewer adult females than AF marmosets, and also were
characterized by a greater surface area to body mass ratio, a trait that may
represent an adaptation to the hot and dry conditions of the Caatinga. We propose
that in conjunction with body mass reduction, minor adjustments in behavior, the 
exploitation of cacti as a source of water and nutrients, and access to exudates 
as a dependable year-round food resource, common marmosets successfully used the 
same adaptive pattern to maintain high reproductive output and infant
survivorship in exploiting these two ecologically distinct environments.

© 2019 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.23018 
PMID: 31192487  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

