

4898. Acta Anat (Basel). 1976;96(1):97-114.

The skin of the palms and soles of the marmosets (Callithrix jacchus and
Callithrix penicillata).

Miraglia T, da Costa Nery JW, Costa Guedes ML.

The structure and histochemistry of the palmar and plantar skin were studied in
four adult male marmosets (two Callithrix jacchus and two Callithrix
penicillata). In this skin there exist well-developed epidermal ridges, to which 
are attached one or two ducts of sweat glands. A thick stratum corneum can be
seen in the epidermis, while a distinct stratum lucidum cannot be isolated from
the other layers. The stratum granulosum is constituted by one or three layers of
cells containing keratohyalin granules. Melanin granulations are mainly
concentrated in the basal cells of the epidermal ridges. Dendritic melanocytes
and amelanotic melanocytes containing alkaline phosphatase are found among the
epidermal cells. Glycogen, UDPG-GT and phosphorylases are mainly present in the
middle and lower Malpighian cells of the epidermal ridges. Alkaline phosphatase, 
ATPase, alanyl amino-peptidase and leucine aminopeptidase were absent in the
epidermal cells. SDH, cytochrome oxidase, MAO and a certain number of
NAD-dependent dehydrogenases (LDH, ADH, MDH, alpha-GPDH, beta-OHBDH and GDH)
showed a stronger reactivity in the basal cells and Malpighian layer. The
NADP-dependent enzymes (G-6-PDH, 6-PGDH, cis-aconistase and ICDH) were more
reactive in the upper Malpighian layer and stratum granulosum. The stratum
corneum showed some acid phosphatase and nonspecific esterase reactivity. The
collagenous fibers intertwined with a small number of very thin elastic ones and 
a larger amount of reticular fibers run almost parallel to the epidermal ridges
in the papillary body. In the reticular dermis some fibers are disposed
transversely to the epidermal ridges. Meissner corpuscles reactive to
butyrylcholinesterase, acetylcholinesterase, nonspecific esterase and G-6-PA are 
disposed at regular intervals and frequently at each side of the epidermal
ridges. Pacinian corpuscles were found only in the hypodermis. The eccrine sweat 
glands contain glycogen, UDPG-GT and phosphorylase in their secretory, ductal and
myoepithelial cells. The secretory part shows a uniform reactivity for every
dehydrogenase because it contains only one type of cells (clear cells). The
intraepidermal segment of the ducts shows a stronger reactivity to nonspecific
esterase and NADP-dependent dehydrogenases than the epithelial cells around it.

DOI: 10.1159/000144664 
PMID: 823786  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

