

4913. Z Tierpsychol. 1975 Apr;37(3):255-73.

Some aspects of sexuality and reproduction in groups of captive marmosets
(Callitbrix jacchus).

Rothe H.

Several aspects of sexual and reproductive behaviour of Callithrix jacchus were
studied for almost five years. The most important results are as follows: (1) In 
artificial groups (AG), heterosexual interactions were observed with varying
frequencies between all group members; in the family groups (FG), however only
between the parents (a-male and a-female). (2) In general, sexual interactions
between two animals in the AG were tolerated by the other group members; in the
FG, the offspring tried to disturb all copulations between the parents. (3) Pre- 
and postcopulatory play, and copulation with intromission and ejaculation are
limited to the highest ranking group members. No difference was found between the
highest and lower ranking males in the duration of copulation and number of
pelvic thrusts. (4) The breeding privilege is correlated with rankorder; that is,
only the most dominant male and female reproduce. This gives the impression of a 
monogamous relationship between the a-animals. (5) Independent of follicle
maturation and ovulation, the a-females indicate estrous characterized by a
considerable increase in willingness to copulate, associative behaviour between
the a-male and the a-female (both most likely influenced or caused by pheromone
activity), as well as aggressive behaviour between the a-female and the lower
ranking females in the AG. Conflicts between the dominant and lower ranking group
members, especially the females in AG, usually cause the group to split. The
ability of the lower ranking females to reproduce is adversely affected by the
stress to which they are subjected. (6) The parents of the FG are extremely
tolerant of their sexually mature adult sons and daughters; expulsion of
offspringe by the parents has not occurred as yet in the FG. (7) There is no
certain evidence of cyclic visible changes of the genital region or menstrual
bleeding in C. jacchus. (8) Captive C. jacchus females breed all year long;
gestation is 144--146 days. (9) Homo- and autosexuality is reported for the males
of the FG.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1439-0310.1975.tb00880.x 
PMID: 821267  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

