

493. PLoS Pathog. 2019 May 21;15(5):e1007803. doi: 10.1371/journal.ppat.1007803.
eCollection 2019 May.

Histamine release from intestinal mast cells induced by staphylococcal
enterotoxin A (SEA) evokes vomiting reflex in common marmoset.

Ono HK(1)(2), Hirose S(1)(3), Narita K(1)(4), Sugiyama M(5), Asano K(1)(3), Hu
DL(2), Nakane A(1)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Hirosaki University Graduate School
of Medicine, Hirosaki, Japan.
(2)Department of Zoonoses, Kitasato University School of Veterinary Medicine,
Towada, Aomori, Japan.
(3)Department of Biopolymer and Health Science, Hirosaki University Graduate
School of Medicine, Hirosaki, Japan.
(4)Institute for Animal Experimentation, Hirosaki University Graduate School of
Medicine, Hirosaki, Japan.
(5)Department of Veterinary Anatomy, Kitasato University School of Veterinary
Medicine, Towada, Japan.

Staphylococcal enterotoxins (SEs) produced by Staphylococcus aureus are known as 
causative agents of emetic food poisoning. We previously demonstrated that SEA
binds with submucosal mast cells and evokes mast cell degranulation in a small
emetic house musk shrew model. Notably, primates have been recognized as the
standard model for emetic assays and analysis of SE emetic activity. However, the
mechanism involved in SEA-induced vomiting in primates has not yet been
elucidated. In the present study, we established common marmosets as an emetic
animal model. Common marmosets were administered classical SEs, including SEA,
SEB and SEC, and exhibited multiple vomiting responses. However, a non-emetic
staphylococcal superantigen, toxic shock syndrome toxin-1, did not induce emesis 
in these monkeys. These results indicated that the common marmoset is a useful
animal model for assessing the emesis-inducing activity of SEs. Furthermore,
histological analysis uncovered that SEA bound with submucosal mast cells and
induced mast cell degranulation. Additionally, ex vivo and in vivo
pharmacological results showed that SEA-induced histamine release plays a
critical role in the vomiting response in common marmosets. The present results
suggested that 5-hydroxytryptamine also plays an important role in the
transmission of emetic stimulation on the afferent vagus nerve or central nervous
system. We conclude that SEA induces histamine release from submucosal mast cells
in the gastrointestinal tract and that histamine contributes to the SEA-induced
vomiting reflex via the serotonergic nerve and/or other vagus nerve.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.ppat.1007803 
PMCID: PMC6546250
PMID: 31112582  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.

