

497. Nihon Yakurigaku Zasshi. 2019;153(5):210-218. doi: 10.1254/fpj.153.210.

[Cell-type-specific targeting strategies for elucidating neural circuits and
pathophysiological mechanisms in the marmoset brain].

[Article in Japanese]

Hara T(1)(2), Osakada F(1)(3)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Cellular Pharmacology, Graduate School of Pharmaceutical
Sciences, Nagoya University.
(2)Sohyaku Innovative Research Division, Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation.
(3)Laboratory of Neural Information Processing, Institute for Advanced Research, 
Nagoya University.
(4)Institute of Nano-Life-Systems, Institutes of Innovation for Future Society,
Nagoya University.

As a primate animal model for neuroscience research, the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus) provides an unprecedented opportunity to gain a better
understanding of the human brain function and pathophysiology of neurological and
psychiatric disorders, thereby helping in the diagnosis and treatment of those
disorders. The marmoset is particularly useful in studying the neural mechanisms 
underlying social behavior, as their prosocial behavior and visual and vocal
communication systems are well-developed. Despite recent advances in
biotechnology such as the creation of genetically engineered marmosets, our
understanding of the marmoset brain, including its dysfunction in disease, at the
circuit level remains limited due to the lack of comprehensive knowledge of the
neuronal connections in the marmoset brain. Here we describe the development of
genetic and viral engineering techniques for a particular type of neuron in
non-transgenic animals. These approaches, combined with rabies viral tracing,
imaging, and electrophysiology, will make it possible to map the connectome and
relate neuronal connectivity to function in the marmoset brain. Such
circuit-level studies will open a new avenue for non-human primate research that 
can bridge the gap between basic research and human studies.

DOI: 10.1254/fpj.153.210 
PMID: 31092753  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

