

50. Elife. 2021 Nov 1;10. pii: e68837. doi: 10.7554/eLife.68837.

Fast and accurate annotation of acoustic signals with deep neural networks.

Steinfath E(1)(2), Palacios-Muñoz A(1)(2), Rottschäfer JR(1)(2), Yuezak D(1)(2), 
Clemens J(1)(3).

Author information: 
(1)European Neuroscience Institute - A Joint Initiative of the University Medical
Center Göttingen and the Max-Planck-Society, Göttingen, Germany.
(2)International Max Planck Research School and Göttingen Graduate School for
Neurosciences, Biophysics, and Molecular Biosciences (GGNB) at the University of 
Göttingen, Göttingen, Germany.
(3)Bernstein Center for Computational Neuroscience, Göttingen, Germany.

Acoustic signals serve communication within and across species throughout the
animal kingdom. Studying the genetics, evolution, and neurobiology of acoustic
communication requires annotating acoustic signals: segmenting and identifying
individual acoustic elements like syllables or sound pulses. To be useful,
annotations need to be accurate, robust to noise, and fast.We here introduce
DeepAudioSegmenter (DAS), a method that annotates acoustic signals across species
based on a deep-learning derived hierarchical presentation of sound. We
demonstrate the accuracy, robustness, and speed of DAS using acoustic signals
with diverse characteristics from insects, birds, and mammals. DAS comes with a
graphical user interface for annotating song, training the network, and for
generating and proofreading annotations. The method can be trained to annotate
signals from new species with little manual annotation and can be combined with
unsupervised methods to discover novel signal types. DAS annotates song with high
throughput and low latency for experimental interventions in realtime. Overall,
DAS is a universal, versatile, and accessible tool for annotating acoustic
communication signals.

© 2021, Steinfath et al.

DOI: 10.7554/eLife.68837 
PMCID: PMC8560090
PMID: 34723794  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: ES, AP, JR, DY No competing interests declared

