

51. J Neurosci Res. 2021 Dec;99(12):3121-3147. doi: 10.1002/jnr.24967. Epub 2021 Oct 
29.

Light microscopic and heterogeneity analysis of astrocytes in the common marmoset
brain.

Muñoz Y(1), Cuevas-Pacheco F(2)(3), Quesseveur G(1), Murai KK(1)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Research in Neuroscience, Department of Neurology & Neurosurgery,
Brain Repair and Integrative Neuroscience Program, Research Institute of the
McGill University Health Centre, Montreal General Hospital, Montreal, QC, Canada.
(2)Department of Mathematics, Universidad Técnica Federico Santa Maria,
Valparaiso, Chile.
(3)Advanced Center for Electrical and Electronic Engineering, Universidad Técnica
Federico Santa Maria, Valparaiso, Chile.
(4)Quantitative Life Sciences Graduate Program, McGill University, Montreal, QC, 
Canada.

Astrocytes are abundant cells of the central nervous system (CNS) and are
involved in processes including synapse formation/function, ion homeostasis,
neurotransmitter uptake, and neurovascular coupling. Recent evidence indicates
that astrocytes show diverse molecular, structural, and physiological properties 
within the CNS. This heterogeneity is reflected in differences in astrocyte
structure, gene expression, functional properties, and responsiveness to
injury/pathological conditions. Deeper investigation of astrocytic heterogeneity 
is needed to understand how astrocytes are configured to enable diverse roles in 
the CNS. While much has been learned about astrocytic heterogeneity in rodents,
much less is known about astrocytic heterogeneity in the primate brain where
astrocytes have greater size and complexity. The common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus) is a promising non-human primate model because of similarities between
marmosets and humans with respect to genetics, brain anatomy, and
cognition/behavior. Here, we investigated the molecular and structural
heterogeneity of marmoset astrocytes using an array of astrocytic markers,
multi-label confocal microscopy, and quantitative analysis. We used male and
female marmosets and found that marmoset astrocytes show differences in
expression of astrocytic markers in cortex, hippocampus, and cerebellum. These
differences were accompanied by intra-regional variation in expression of markers
for glutamate/GABA transporters, and potassium and water channels. Differences in
astrocyte structure were also found, along with complex interactions with blood
vessels, microglia, and neurons. This study contributes to our knowledge of the
cellular and molecular features of marmoset astrocytes and is useful for
understanding the complex properties of astrocytes in the primate CNS.

© 2021 The Authors. Journal of Neuroscience Research published by Wiley
Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/jnr.24967 
PMID: 34716617 

