

512. J Comp Psychol. 2019 Nov;133(4):474-487. doi: 10.1037/com0000169. Epub 2019 Apr
15.

Food sharing patterns in three species of callitrichid monkeys (Callithrix
jacchus, Leontopithecus chrysomelas, Saguinus midas): Individual and species
differences.

Guerreiro Martins EM(1), Moura ACA(2), Finkenwirth C(1), Griesser M(3), Burkart
JM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anthropology.
(2)Departamento de Engenharia e Meio Ambiente.
(3)Department of Evolutionary Biology and Environmental Studies.

Food sharing (FS) in cooperatively breeding callitrichids is unusual among
nonhuman primates because they regularly share significant amounts of preferred
food with immatures and engage in proactive FS. However, it is still unclear
which classes of individuals (males or females, breeders or helpers) engage most 
in FS, and whether differences exist among callitrichid species. In the first
part of this study, we characterized general FS patterns in common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus). We found substantial adult-immature FS, and female breeders
shared the least with immatures. This conflicts with previously published
studies, where data were collected with the prevailing standard method of
providing a food bowl to the entire group. In the second part, a comparison of
our access-bias-free method and the standard method suggested that previous
findings are likely the result of access bias. In the third part, we investigated
species differences in adult-adult FS among common marmosets, golden-headed lion 
tamarins (Leontopithecus chrysomelas), and red-handed tamarins (Saguinus midas). 
As common marmosets show lower levels of interdependence within groups, we
expected more adult-adult FS in tamarins compared with marmosets. Adult-adult FS 
was indeed more prevalent in tamarins and not exclusively directed from male
breeders to female breeders. Therefore, our results suggest that adult-adult FS
in marmosets mostly reflects the high energetic demands of female breeders,
whereas in the more interdependent tamarins, it may be used to reinforce
cooperative bonds between adult group members. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2019
APA, all rights reserved).

DOI: 10.1037/com0000169 
PMID: 30985161  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

