

513. Front Neuroanat. 2019 Mar 27;13:36. doi: 10.3389/fnana.2019.00036. eCollection
2019.

Cyto- and Myelo-Architecture of the Amygdaloid Complex of the Common Marmoset
Monkey (Callithrix jacchus).

Araújo Góis Morais PL(1)(2), García-Amado M(2), Lima RRM(1), Córdoba-Claros A(2),
Souza Cavalcante J(3), Clascá F(2), Nascimento ES Jr(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Morphology, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, 
Brazil.
(2)Department of Anatomy & Neuroscience, School of Medicine, Autonoma de Madrid
University, Madrid, Spain.
(3)Department of Physiology, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, 
Brazil.

The amygdaloid complex (AC) is a heterogeneous aggregate of nuclei located in the
rostromedial region of the temporal lobe. In addition to being partly connected
among themselves, the AC nuclei are strongly interconnected with the cerebral
cortex, striatum, basal forebrain, hypothalamus and brainstem. Animal and human
functional studies have established that the AC is a central hub of the neuronal 
networks supporting emotional responsivity, particularly its negative/aversive
components. Dysfunction of AC circuits in humans has been implicated in anxiety, 
depression, schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. The small New-World marmoset
monkey (Callithrix jacchus) has recently become a key model for neuroscience
research. However, the nuclear and fiber tract organization of marmoset AC has
not been examined in detail. Thus, the extent to which it can be compared to the 
AC of Old-World (human and macaque) primates is yet unclear. Here, using Nissl
and acetylcholinesterase (AChE) histochemical stains as a reference, we analyzed 
the cytoarchitecture and nuclear parcellation of the marmoset AC. In addition,
given the increasing relevance of tractographic localization for high-resolution 
in vivo imaging studies in non-human primates, we also identified the myelin
fiber tracts present within and around the AC as revealed by the Gallyas method. 
The present study provides a detailed atlas of marmoset AC. Moreover, it reveals 
that, despite phylogenetic distance and brain size differences, every nucleus and
myelinated axon bundle described in human and macaque studies can be confidently 
recognized in marmosets.

DOI: 10.3389/fnana.2019.00036 
PMCID: PMC6446959
PMID: 30971903 

