

516. J Neurosci Methods. 2019 Jul 1;322:23-33. doi: 10.1016/j.jneumeth.2019.03.016.
Epub 2019 Apr 1.

MarmoDetector: A novel 3D automated system for the quantitative assessment of
marmoset behavior.

Yabumoto T(1), Yoshida F(2), Miyauchi H(3), Baba K(4), Tsuda H(1), Ikenaka K(1), 
Hayakawa H(1), Koyabu N(5), Hamanaka H(6), Papa SM(7), Hirata M(8), Mochizuki
H(9).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Graduate School of Medicine, Osaka University, Suita,
Osaka, Japan.
(2)Department of Neurological Diagnosis and Restoration, Graduat School of
Medicine, Osaka University, Suita, Osaka, Japan; Department of Neurosurgery,
Osaka University Medical School, Suita, Osaka, Japan; Department of Anatomy &
Physiology, Faculty of Medicine, Saga University, Saga, Japan; Japan Science and 
Technology Agency, PRESTO, Japan.
(3)COCOSNET Ltd., Fukuoka, Japan.
(4)Department of Neurology, Graduate School of Medicine, Osaka University, Suita,
Osaka, Japan; Department of Advanced Hybrid Medicine, Graduate School of
Medicine, Osaka University, Suita, Osaka, Japan.
(5)The Institute of Large Laboratory Animal Sciences, Center of Medical
Innovation and Translational Research, Graduate School of Medicine, Osaka
University, Suita, Osaka, Japan.
(6)Department of Neurological Diagnosis and Restoration, Graduat School of
Medicine, Osaka University, Suita, Osaka, Japan.
(7)Yerkes National Primate Research Center, Emory University, Atlanta, GA, USA;
Department of Neurology, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA, USA.
(8)Department of Neurological Diagnosis and Restoration, Graduat School of
Medicine, Osaka University, Suita, Osaka, Japan; Department of Neurosurgery,
Osaka University Medical School, Suita, Osaka, Japan; Center for Information and 
Neural Networks, National Institute of Information and Communications Technology 
and Osaka University, Osaka, Japan. Electronic address:
mhirata@cne.mei.osaka-u.ac.jp.
(9)Department of Neurology, Graduate School of Medicine, Osaka University, Suita,
Osaka, Japan. Electronic address: hmochizuki@neurol.med.osaka-u.ac.jp.

BACKGROUND: Callithrix jacchus, generally known as the common marmoset, has
recently garnered interest as an experimental primate model for better
understanding the basis of human social behavior, architecture and function.
Modelling human neurological and psychological diseases in marmosets can enhance 
the knowledge obtained from rodent research for future pre-clinical studies.
Hence, comprehensive and quantitative assessments of marmoset behaviors are
crucial. However, systems for monitoring and analyzing marmoset behaviors have
yet to be established.
NEW METHOD: In this paper, we present a novel multimodal system, MarmoDetector,
for the automated 3D analysis of marmoset behavior under freely moving
conditions. MarmoDetector allows the quantitative assessment of marmoset
behaviors using computerised tracking analysis techniques that are based on a
Kinect system equipped with video recordings, infrared images and depth analysis.
RESULTS: Using MarmoDetector, we assessed behavioral circadian rhythms
continuously over several days in home cages. In addition, MarmoDetector detected
acute, transient complex behaviors of alcohol injected marmosets.
COMPARISON TO EXISTING METHOD: Compared to 2D recording, MarmoDetector detects
activities more precisely and is very sensitive as we could detect behavioral
defects specifically induced by alcohol administration.
CONCLUSION: MarmoDetector facilitates the rapid and accurate analysis of marmoset
behavior and will enhance research on the neural basis of brain disorders.

Copyright © 2019. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jneumeth.2019.03.016 
PMCID: PMC8014948
PMID: 30946879  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

