

522. J Endocrinol. 2019 Jun 1;241(3):175-187. doi: 10.1530/JOE-18-0574.

Irisin in the primate hypothalamus and its effect on GnRH in vitro.

Wahab F(1), Khan IU(2), Polo IR(1)(3), Zubair H(2), Drummer C(1)(3), Shahab M(2),
Behr R(1)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Platform Degenerative Diseases, German Primate Center, Leibniz Institute for
Primate Research, Göttingen, Germany.
(2)Department of Animal Sciences, Faculty of Biological Sciences, Quaid-i-Azam
University, Islamabad, Pakistan.
(3)DZHK (German Center for Cardiovascular Research), Partner Site Göttingen,
Göttingen, Germany.

Irisin, encoded by the FNDC5 gene, is a recently discovered endocrine factor
mainly secreted as a myokine and adipokine. However, irisin/FNDC5 expression has 
also been reported in different other organs including components of the
reproductive axis. Yet, there is the scarcity of data on FNDC5/irisin expression,
regulation and its reproductive effects, particularly in primates. Here, we
report the expression of FNDC5/irisin, along with PGC1A (peroxisome
proliferator-activated receptor gamma coactivator 1-alpha) and ERRA
(estrogen-related receptor alpha), in components of the reproductive axis of
marmoset monkeys. Hypothalamic FNDC5 and ERRA transcript levels are
developmentally regulated in both male and female. We further uncovered
sex-specific differences in FNDC5, ERRA and PGC1A expression in muscle and the
reproductive axis. Moreover, irisin and ERRα co-localize in the marmoset
hypothalamus. Additionally, in the arcuate nucleus of rhesus monkeys, the number 
of irisin+ cells was significantly increased in short-term fasted monkeys as
compared to ad libitum-fed monkeys. More importantly, we observed putative
interaction of irisin-immunoreactive fibers and few GnRH-immunoreactive cell
bodies in the mediobasal hypothalamus of the rhesus monkeys. Functionally, we
noted a stimulatory effect of irisin on GnRH synthesis and release in mouse
hypothalamic neuronal GT1-7 cells. In summary, our findings show that FNDC5 and
irisin are developmentally, metabolic-status dependently and sex-specifically
expressed in the primate hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis and exert a
stimulatory effect on GnRH expression and release in mouse hypothalamic cells.
Further studies are required to confirm the reproductive effects of irisin in
vivo and to illuminate the mechanisms of its regulation.

DOI: 10.1530/JOE-18-0574 
PMID: 30913538  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

