

526. PLoS One. 2019 Mar 20;14(3):e0213727. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0213727.
eCollection 2019.

Does opportunistic testing bias cognitive performance in primates? Learning from 
drop-outs.

Schubiger MN(1)(2), Kissling A(1), Burkart JM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anthropology, Evolutionary Cognition Group, University of
Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland.
(2)School of Social and Health Sciences, Division of Psychology, Abertay
University, Dundee, Scotland, United Kingdom.

Dropouts are a common issue in cognitive tests with non-human primates. One main 
reason for dropouts is that researchers often face a trade-off between obtaining 
a sufficiently large sample size and logistic restrictions, such as limited
access to testing facilities. The commonly-used opportunistic testing approach
deals with this trade-off by only testing those individuals who readily
participate and complete the cognitive tasks within a given time frame. All other
individuals are excluded from further testing and data analysis. However, it is
unknown if this approach merely excludes subjects who are not consistently
motivated to participate, or if these dropouts systematically differ in cognitive
ability. If the latter holds, the selection bias resulting from opportunistic
testing would systematically affect performance scores and thus comparisons
between individuals and species. We assessed the potential effects of
opportunistic testing on cognitive performance in common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus) and squirrel monkeys (Saimiri sciureus) with a test battery consisting
of six cognitive tests: two inhibition tasks (Detour Reaching and A-not-B), one
cognitive flexibility task (Reversal Learning), one quantity discrimination task,
and two memory tasks. Importantly, we used a full testing approach in which
subjects were given as much time as they required to complete each task. For each
task, we then compared the performance of subjects who completed the task within 
the expected number of testing days with those subjects who needed more testing
time. We found that the two groups did not differ in task performance, and
therefore opportunistic testing would have been justified without risking biased 
results. If our findings generalise to other species, maximising sample sizes by 
only testing consistently motivated subjects will be a valid alternative whenever
full testing is not feasible.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0213727 
PMCID: PMC6426242
PMID: 30893340  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.

