

528. Neuroimage. 2019 Jun;193:126-138. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2019.03.023. Epub
2019 Mar 15.

Integrated radiofrequency array and animal holder design for minimizing head
motion during awake marmoset functional magnetic resonance imaging.

Schaeffer DJ(1), Gilbert KM(1), Hori Y(1), Gati JS(1), Menon RS(2), Everling
S(3).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Functional and Metabolic Mapping, Robarts Research Institute,
University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, Canada.
(2)Centre for Functional and Metabolic Mapping, Robarts Research Institute,
University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, Canada; Department of Physiology 
and Pharmacology, University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, Canada.
(3)Centre for Functional and Metabolic Mapping, Robarts Research Institute,
University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, Canada; Department of Physiology 
and Pharmacology, University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, Canada.
Electronic address: severlin@uwo.ca.

Marmosets are small New World primates that are posited to become an important
preclinical animal model for studying intractable human brain diseases. A
critical step in the development of marmosets as a viable model for human brain
dysfunction is to characterize brain networks that are homologous with human
network topologies. In this regard, the use of functional magnetic resonance
imaging (fMRI) holds tremendous potential for functional brain mapping in
marmosets. Although possible, implementation of hardware for fMRI in awake
marmosets (free of the confounding effects of anesthesia) is not trivial due to
the technical challenges associated with developing specialized imaging hardware.
Here, we describe the design and implementation of a marmoset holder and
head-fixation system with an integrated receive coil for awake marmoset fMRI.
This design minimized head motion, with less than 100  μm of translation and 0.5 
degrees of rotation over 15 consecutive resting state fMRI runs (at 15 min each) 
across 3 different marmosets. The fMRI data was of sufficient quality to reliably
extract 8 resting state networks from each animal with only 60-90 min of resting 
state fMRI acquisition per animal. The restraint system proved to be an efficient
and practical solution for securing an awake marmoset and positioning a receive
array within minutes, limiting stress to the animal. This design is also amenable
for multimodal imaging, allowing for electrode or lens placement above the skull 
via the open chamber design. All computer-aided-design (CAD) files and
engineering drawings are provided as an open resource, with the majority of the
parts designed to be 3D printed.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2019.03.023 
PMID: 30879997  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

