

539. Am J Primatol. 2019 Apr;81(4):e22964. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22964. Epub 2019 Feb 27.

Balancing contest competition, scramble competition, and social tolerance at
feeding sites in wild common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

De la Fuente MF(1), Schiel N(1), Bicca-Marques JC(2), Caselli CB(1), Souto A(3), 
Garber PA(4).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Biologia, Universidade Federal Rural de Pernambuco, Recife,
Brazil.
(2)Laboratório de Primatologia, Escola de Ciências, Pontifícia Universidade
Católica do Rio Grande do Sul, Porto Alegre, Brazil.
(3)Departamento de Zoologia, Universidade Federal de Pernambuco, Recife, Brazil.
(4)Department of Anthropology, Program in Ecology, Evolution, and Conservation
Biology, University of Illinois, Urbana, Illinois.

Models of primate sociality focus on the costs and benefits of group living and
how factors such as rank, feeding competition, alliance formation, and
cooperative behavior shape within-group social relationships. We conducted a
series of controlled field experiments designed to investigate how resource
distribution (one or three of four reward platforms) and amount of food on a
reward platform affected foraging strategies and individual feeding success in
four groups of wild common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) living in the Caatinga 
of northeastern Brazil. At our field site, common marmoset groups are
characterized by a single breeding female who can produce twin litters twice per 
year, strong social cohesion, and cooperative infant care provided principally by
several adult male helpers. We found that except for the dominant breeding
female, rank (based on aggression) was not a strong predictor of feeding success.
Although the breeding female in each group occupied the highest rank position and
obtained the greatest daily feeding success, all other group members, including
adults and juveniles experienced relatively equal feeding success across most
experimental conditions. This was accomplished using a balance of behavioral
strategies related to contest competition, scramble competition (associated with 
a finder's advantage), and social tolerance (sharing the same feeding platform). 
Based on these results, the social structure of common marmosets is best
described as "single female dominance," with the breeding female maximizing food 
intake needed to offset the energetic costs associated with reproductive twinning
and the ability to produce two litters per year. Cooperative infant caregiving,
in which the number of helpers is positively correlated with offspring
survivorship, requires a set of behavioral strategies that serve to reduce
contest competition and promote prosocial behaviors at feeding sites.

© 2019 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22964 
PMID: 30810248  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

