

540. Am J Primatol. 2019 Mar;81(3):e22963. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22963. Epub 2019 Feb 26.

Detection of insect prey by wild common marmosets: The effect of color vision.

Abreu F(1), Souto A(2), Bonci DMO(3), Mantovani V(3), Pessoa DMA(4), Schiel N(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Theoretical and Applied Ethology, Department of Biology, Federal
Rural University of Pernambuco, Recife, Brazil.
(2)Laboratory of Ethology, Department of Zoology, Federal University of
Pernambuco, Recife, Brazil.
(3)Laboratory of Psychophysiology, Department of Experimental Psychology,
University of São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil.
(4)Laboratory of Sensory Ecology, Department of Physiology and Behavior, Federal 
University of Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, Brazil.

Most species of New World primates have an unusual color vision pattern that can 
affect an individual's ability to detect food. Whereas males can only be
dichromatic, females can be either dichromatic or trichromatic. Trichromats are
expected to have an advantage in detecting conspicuous food whereas dichromats
should be better at locating cryptic resources. Here we aimed to understand how
color vision phenotype influences insect foraging by five groups of common
marmosets living in a semiarid environment. We recorded insect predation events, 
noting morphotype and color of the captured insect, and the substrate from which 
it was captured. Color modeling suggested that, for all values of chromatic
contrast resulting from comparing the measured insect-substrate pairs,
trichromats outperformed dichromats. Females showed an overall higher insect
capture rate than males. Females also showed a higher capture rate of conspicuous
insects but there was no sex difference for the capture of cryptic insects. When 
we compared only dichromatic individuals there was no difference between sexes.
These findings suggest that differences found in capture rate related not only to
sex but also to visual polymorphism and that the latter is a crucial factor
determining insect capture rate in common marmosets. Nevertheless, these results 
should be interpreted with caution because of the small number (three) of
dichromat females and the unknown phenotype of the remaining females. Our results
support the balancing selection hypothesis, suggesting that the advantage of one 
phenotype over the other may depend on environmental circumstances. This
hypothesis has recently been considered as the most plausible for the maintenance
of visual polymorphism in New World primates.

© 2019 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22963 
PMID: 30809840  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

