

547. Am J Primatol. 2019 Feb;81(2):e22956. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22956. Epub 2019 Feb 18.

Loss of ferritin-positive microglia relates to increased iron, RNA oxidation, and
dystrophic microglia in the brains of aged male marmosets.

Rodríguez-Callejas JD(1), Cuervo-Zanatta D(1), Rosas-Arellano A(1), Fonta C(2),
Fuchs E(3), Perez-Cruz C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Center of Research in Advance Studies, Mexico
City, Mexico.
(2)Brain and Cognition Research Centre (CERCO), CNRS/University of Toulouse,
Toulouse, France.
(3)German Primate Center, Leibniz Institute for Primate Research, Göttingen,
Germany.

Microglia are cells that protect brain tissue from invading agents and toxic
substances, first by releasing pro-inflammatory cytokines, and thereafter by
clearing tissue by phagocytosis. Microglia express ferritin, a protein with
ferroxidase activity capable of storing iron, a metal that accumulates in brain
during aging. Increasing evidence suggests that ferritin plays an important role 
in inflammation. However, it is not known if ferritin/iron content can be related
to the activation state of microglia. To this end, we aimed to delineate the role
of ferritin in microglia activation in a non-human primate model. We analyzed
brains of male marmosets and observed an increased density of ferritin+ microglia
with an activated phenotype in hippocampus and cortex of old marmosets (mean age 
11.25 ± 0.70 years) compared to younger subjects. This was accompanied by an
increased number of dystrophic microglia in old marmosets. However, in aged
subjects (mean age 16.83 ± 2.59 years) the number of ferritin+ microglia was
decreased compared to old ones. Meanwhile, the content of iron in brain tissue
and cells with oxidized RNA increased during aging in all hippocampal and
cortical regions analyzed. Abundant amoeboid microglia were commonly observed
surrounding neurons with oxidized RNA. Notably, amoeboid microglia were
arginase1+ and IL-10+, indicative of a M2 phenotype. Some of those M2 cells also 
presented RNA oxidation and a dystrophic phenotype. Therefore, our data suggest
that ferritin confers protection to microglia in adult and old marmosets, while
in aged subjects the decline in ferritin and the increased amount of iron in
brain tissue may be related to the increased number of cells with oxidized RNA,
perhaps precluding the onset of neurodegeneration.

© 2019 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22956 
PMID: 30779205  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

