

549. J Vis Exp. 2019 Feb 1;(144). doi: 10.3791/58980.

Chronic Implantation of Whole-cortical Electrocorticographic Array in the Common 
Marmoset.

Komatsu M(1), Kaneko T(2), Okano H(2), Ichinohe N(3).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Molecular Analysis of Higher Brain Function, RIKEN Center for
Brain Science; mkomatsu@brain.riken.jp.
(2)Laboratory for Marmoset Neural Architecture, RIKEN Center for Brain Science;
Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine.
(3)Laboratory for Molecular Analysis of Higher Brain Function, RIKEN Center for
Brain Science; Department of Ultrastructural Research, National Center of
Neurology and Psychiatry.

Electrocorticography (ECoG) allows the monitoring of electrical field potentials 
from the cerebral cortex with high spatiotemporal resolution. Recent development 
of thin, flexible ECoG electrodes has enabled conduction of stable recordings of 
large-scale cortical activity. We have developed a whole-cortical ECoG array for 
the common marmoset. The array continuously covers almost the entire lateral
surface of cortical hemisphere, from the occipital pole to the temporal and
frontal poles, and it captures whole-cortical neural activity in one shot. This
protocol describes a chronic implantation procedure of the array in the epidural 
space of the marmoset brain. Marmosets have two advantages regarding ECoG
recordings, one being the homologous organization of anatomical structures in
humans and macaques, including frontal, parietal, and temporal complexes. The
other advantage is that the marmoset brain is lissencephalic and contains a large
number of complexes, which are more difficult to access in macaques with ECoG,
that are exposed to the brain surface.These features allow direct access to most 
cortical areas beneath the surface of the brain. This system provides an
opportunity to investigate global cortical information processing with high
resolutions at a sub-millisecond order in time and millimeter order in space.

DOI: 10.3791/58980 
PMID: 30774127  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

