

552. PLoS One. 2019 Feb 7;14(2):e0207560. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0207560.
eCollection 2019.

Characterization of oral microbiota in marmosets: Feasibility of using the
marmoset as a human oral disease model.

Takehara S(1)(2), Zeredo JL(3), Kumei Y(4), Kagiyama K(5), Fukasawa K(5), Oshiro 
A(2), Ueno M(2)(6), Kojimahara N(1), Minakuchi S(7), Kawaguchi Y(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Public Health, Tokyo Women's Medical University, Tokyo, Japan.
(2)Department of Oral Health Promotion, Graduate School of Medical and Dental
Sciences, Tokyo Medical and Dental University, Tokyo, Japan.
(3)Graduate Program in Health Sciences and Technology, University of Brasilia,
Brasilia, Brazil.
(4)Department of Biochemistry, Graduate School of Medical and Dental Sciences,
Tokyo Medical and Dental University, Tokyo, Japan.
(5)Clea Japan Inc., Gifu, Japan.
(6)Department of Health Sciences, Saitama Prefectural University, Saitama, Japan.
(7)Gerodontology and Oral Rehabilitation, Graduate School of Medical and Dental
Sciences, Tokyo Medical and Dental University, Tokyo, Japan.

With rapid aging of the world's population, the demand for research, for a better
understanding of aging and aging-related disorders, is increasing. Ideally, such 
research should be conducted on human subjects. However, due to ethical
considerations, animals such as rodents and monkeys are used as alternatives.
Among these alternative models, non-human primates are preferred because of their
similarities with humans. The small South American common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus) may offer several advantages over other non-human primates in terms of
its smaller size, shorter life-span, and dental anatomy identical to humans. The 
purpose of this study was to determine the viability of using the marmoset as a
human oral disease model. We collected saliva samples from eight marmosets and
eight human subjects. Prokaryotic DNA was extracted from the saliva samples, and 
16S bacterial rRNA gene sequencing was performed on each of the samples. Our
results indicated that the types of oral microbiomes detected among human and
marmoset samples were nearly indistinguishable. In contrast, the oral microbiomes
of our human and marmoset subjects were distinctly different from those reported 
for rats and dogs, which are currently popular research animals. The oral
microbiomes of marmosets showed greater diversity than those of humans. However, 
the oral microbiota of marmosets exhibited less variation than those of humans,
which may be attributed to the fact that the marmoset subjects were kept in a
controlled environment with identical lifestyles. The characteristics of its oral
microbiota, combined with other technical advantages, suggest that the marmoset
may provide the best animal model thus far for the study of oral health. This
study characterized the oral microbes of the marmoset, thereby providing
information to support future application of the marmoset as a model for
age-related oral disease.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0207560 
PMCID: PMC6366748
PMID: 30730898  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The following authors are affiliated with CLEA
Japan, Inc.: KK and KF. The commercial affiliation with CLEA Japan, Inc. does not
alter our adherence to PLOS ONE policies on sharing data and materials.

