

56. Neurobiol Aging. 2022 Jan;109:88-99. doi: 10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2021.09.015.
Epub 2021 Sep 20.

Sex differences in cognitive aging: a 4-year longitudinal study in marmosets.

Rothwell ES(1), Workman KP(2), Wang D(2), Lacreuse A(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences, University of Massachusetts,
Amherst, MA, USA. Electronic address: erothwell@umass.edu.
(2)Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences, University of Massachusetts,
Amherst, MA, USA.
(3)Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences, University of Massachusetts,
Amherst, MA, USA; Neuroscience and Behavior Graduate Program, University of
Massachusetts, Amherst, MA, USA.

Longitudinal studies are essential to understand healthy and pathological
neurocognitive aging such as Alzheimer's Disease, but longitudinal designs are
rare in both humans and non-human primate models of aging because of the
difficulty of tracking cognitive change in long-lived primates. Common marmosets 
(Callithrix jacchus) are uniquely suited for aging studies due to their naturally
short lifespan (10-12 years), sophisticated cognitive and social abilities and
Alzheimer Disease-like neuropathology. We report the first longitudinal study of 
cognitive aging in marmosets (N = 28) as they transitioned from middle- (∼5
years) to old age (∼9 years). We characterized aging trajectories using reversal 
learning with different stimuli each year. Marmosets initially improved on
cognitive performance due to practice, but worsened in the final year, suggesting
the onset of age-related decline. Cognitive impairment emerged earlier in females
than males and was more prominent for discrimination than for reversal learning. 
Sex differences in cognitive aging could not be explained by differences in
motivation or motor abilities, which improved or remained stable across aging.
Likewise, males and females did not differ in aging trajectories of overall
behavior or reactivity to a social stressor, with the exception of a progressive 
decline in the initiation of social behavior in females. Patterns of cognitive
aging were highly variable across marmosets of both sexes, suggesting the
potential for pathological aging for some individuals. Future work will link
individual cognitive trajectories to neuropathology in order to better understand
the relationships between neuropathologic burden and vulnerability to age-related
cognitive decline in each sex.

Copyright © 2021. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2021.09.015 
PMCID: PMC8841951 [Available on 2023-01-01]
PMID: 34700200  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations of Interest None.

