

570. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2019 Jan 2;60(1):331-344. doi: 10.1167/iovs.18-25536.

Distribution and Activity of Mitochondrial Proteins in Vascular and Avascular
Retinas: Implications for Retinal Metabolism.

Chidlow G(1), Wood JPM(1), Sia PI(1), Casson RJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Ophthalmic Research Laboratories, Discipline of Ophthalmology and Visual
Sciences, University of Adelaide, Adelaide, South Australia, Australia.

Purpose: Understanding the energetics of retinal neurons and glia is crucial for 
developing therapies for diseases that feature deficits in nutrient or oxygen
availability. Herein, we performed a detailed characterization of the
distribution and activity of mitochondrial proteins in the vascularized retinas
of rat and marmoset, and the avascular retinas of rabbit and guinea pig. Further,
we delineated expression of ubiquitous mitochondrial creatine kinase (uMtCK).
Methods: Expression of eight mitochondrial proteins was investigated using
Western blotting, single- and double-labeling immunohistochemistry. Activities of
cytochrome c oxidase, succinate dehydrgogenase, and isocitrate dehydrogenase were
determined by enzyme histochemistry using unfixed tissue sections.
Results: In vascularized retinas, immunoreactivities were characterized by
strong, punctate labeling in the plexiform layers, photoreceptor inner segments, 
somas of various cell types, notably retinal ganglion cells (RGCs), and the
basolateral surface of the retinal pigment epithelium. In avascular retinas,
immunoreactivities featured intense labeling of inner segments, together with
weak, but unambiguous, staining of both plexiform layers. RGCs were relatively
enriched. In Müller cells of avascular retinas, mitochondria were restricted to
scleral-end processes. For each species, enzyme activity assays yielded similar
results to the protein distributions. Labeling for uMtCK in vascular and
avascular retinas was fundamentally similar, being restricted to neuronal
populations, most notably inner segments and RGCs. Of all of the mitochondrial
proteins, uMtCK displayed the strongest labeling in avascular retinas. uMtCK was 
not detectable in Müller cells in any species.
Conclusions: The current findings advance our understanding of the metabolic
similarities and differences between vascular and avascular retinas.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.18-25536 
PMID: 30664793  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

