

59. Am J Primatol. 2021 Oct 18:e23341. doi: 10.1002/ajp.23341. [Epub ahead of print]

Temperature and exudativory as drivers of the marmoset (Callithrix spp.) daily
activity period.

Hilário RR(1), Silvestre SM(2), Abreu F(3), Beltrão-Mendes R(4), de Castro
CSS(5), Chagas RRD(6), De la Fuente MF(3), Duarte MHL(7), Ferrari SF(8),
Passamani M(9), Schiel N(10), Souto A(11), Young RJ(12), Souza-Alves JP(13).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Meio Ambiente e Desenvolvimento, Universidade Federal do
Amapá, Macapá, Brazil.
(2)Departamento de Ciências Biológicas e da Saúde, Programa de Pós-Graduação em
Biodiversidade Tropical, Universidade Federal do Amapá, Macapá, Brazil.
(3)Departamento de Biologia, Programa de Pós-Graduação em Etnobiologia e
Conservação da Natureza, Universidade Federal Rural de Pernambuco, Recife,
Brazil.
(4)Programa de Pós-Graduação em Ecologia e Conservação, Universidade Federal de
Sergipe, São Cristóvão, Brazil.
(5)Departamento de Engenharia e Meio Ambiente, Programa de Pós-Graduação em
Ecologia e Monitoramento Ambiental, Universidade Federal da Paraíba, Rio Tinto,
Brazil.
(6)Departamento de Sistemárica e Ecologia, Programa de Pós-Graduação em Ciências 
Biológicas, Universidade Federal da Paraíba, João Pessoa, Brazil.
(7)Departamento de Ciências Biológicas, Programa de Pós-graduação em Biologia de 
Vertebrados e Museu de Ciências Naturais, Pontifícia Universidade Católica de
Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, Brazil.
(8)Departamento de Ecologia, Universidade Federal de Sergipe, São Cristóvão,
Brazil.
(9)Departamento de Ecologia e Conservação, Universidade Federal de Lavras,
Lavras, Brazil.
(10)Departamento de Biologia, Laboratório de Etologia Teórica e Aplicada,
Universidade Federal Rural de Pernambuco, Recife, Brazil.
(11)Departamento de Zoologia, Universidade Federal de Pernambuco, Recife, Brazil.
(12)Department of Biology, University of Salford, Manchester, UK.
(13)Departamento de Zoologia, Programa de Pós-Graduação em Biologia Animal and
Laboratório de Ecologia, Comportamento e Conservação (LECC), Universidade Federal
de Pernambuco, Recife, Brazil.

Primates are affected by fluctuations in ambient temperatures, mostly through
thermoregulatory costs and changes in the availability of food. In the present
study, we investigate whether the ambient temperature and proxies of food
availability affect the activity period of marmosets (Callithrix spp.). We
predicted that: (i) at colder sites, marmosets would spend more time at sleeping 
sites; (ii) midday resting bouts would be longer at hotter sites; (iii) the
onset/cessation of activity and resting behavior at midday would be more closely 
related to temperature than food availability, and (iv) highly exudativorous
groups would have higher total levels of resting. We compiled data on the onset
and cessation of activity and the time spent resting at midday from seven
marmoset studies from sites with a wide range of temperatures. We used
generalized linear mixed models to verify the relationship between the dependent 
variables (lag between dawn and the onset of activities, lag between cessation of
activities and dusk, and proportion of resting during midday) and the minimum and
maximum temperatures at the respective study sites, together with proxies of food
availability (exudativory rates, the amount of habitat available per individual, 
and net primary productivity) using each sample month as a sampling unit and the 
identity of the study as a categorical random factor. At colder sites and during 
colder months, the marmosets left sleeping trees later in the morning and ceased 
their activities earlier, while at hotter sites and during hotter months, they
spent more time resting during midday. More exudativorous groups become active
later in the morning, but also ceased their activities later. The abundance of
food did not affect the timing of activities. We provide evidence that both low
and high temperatures affect marmosets' activities, and that their activity
period appears to be more influenced by the thermal environment than food
availability.

© 2021 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.23341 
PMID: 34662461 

