

591. PLoS Comput Biol. 2018 Dec 3;14(12):e1006643. doi: 10.1371/journal.pcbi.1006643. 
eCollection 2018 Dec.

Detection and analysis of spatiotemporal patterns in brain activity.

Townsend RG(1)(2), Gong P(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)School of Physics, The University of Sydney, NSW, Australia.
(2)ARC Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain Function, The University of
Sydney, NSW, Australia.

There is growing evidence that population-level brain activity is often organized
into propagating waves that are structured in both space and time. Such
spatiotemporal patterns have been linked to brain function and observed across
multiple recording methodologies and scales. The ability to detect and analyze
these patterns is thus essential for understanding the working mechanisms of
neural circuits. Here we present a mathematical and computational framework for
the identification and analysis of multiple classes of wave patterns in neural
population-level recordings. By drawing a conceptual link between spatiotemporal 
patterns found in the brain and coherent structures such as vortices found in
turbulent flows, we introduce velocity vector fields to characterize neural
population activity. These vector fields are calculated for both phase and
amplitude of oscillatory neural signals by adapting optical flow estimation
methods from the field of computer vision. Based on these velocity vector fields,
we then introduce order parameters and critical point analysis to detect and
characterize a diverse range of propagating wave patterns, including planar
waves, sources, sinks, spiral waves, and saddle patterns. We also introduce a
novel vector field decomposition method that extracts the dominant spatiotemporal
structures in a recording. This enables neural data to be represented by the
activity of a small number of independent spatiotemporal modes, providing an
alternative to existing dimensionality reduction techniques which separate space 
and time components. We demonstrate the capabilities of the framework and toolbox
with simulated data, local field potentials from marmoset visual cortex and
optical voltage recordings from whole mouse cortex, and we show that pattern
dynamics are non-random and are modulated by the presence of visual stimuli.
These methods are implemented in a MATLAB toolbox, which is freely available
under an open-source licensing agreement.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pcbi.1006643 
PMCID: PMC6292652
PMID: 30507937  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.

