

593. J Cogn Neurosci. 2019 Sep;31(9):1318-1328. doi: 10.1162/jocn_a_01361. Epub 2018
Dec 4.

Recognition Memory in Marmoset and Macaque Monkeys: A Comparison of Active
Vision.

Nummela SU(1), Jutras MJ(2), Wixted JT(1), Buffalo EA(2), Miller CT(1).

Author information: 
(1)University of California, San Diego.
(2)University of Washington.

The core functional organization of the primate brain is remarkably conserved
across the order, but behavioral differences evident between species likely
reflect derived modifications in the underlying neural processes. Here, we
performed the first study to directly compare visual recognition memory in two
primate species-rhesus macaques and marmoset monkeys-on the same visual
preferential looking task as a first step toward identifying similarities and
differences in this cognitive process across the primate phylogeny. Preferences
in looking behavior on the task were broadly similar between the species, with
greater looking times for novel images compared with repeated images as well as a
similarly strong preference for faces compared with other categories.
Unexpectedly, we found large behavioral differences among the two species in
looking behavior independent of image familiarity. Marmosets exhibited longer
looking times, with greater variability compared with macaques, regardless of
image content or familiarity. Perhaps most strikingly, marmosets shifted their
gaze across the images more quickly, suggesting a different behavioral strategy
when viewing images. Although such differences limit the comparison of
recognition memory across these closely related species, they point to
interesting differences in the mechanisms underlying active vision that have
significant implications for future neurobiological investigations with these two
nonhuman primate species. Elucidating whether these patterns are reflective of
species or broader phylogenetic differences (e.g., between New World and Old
World monkeys) necessitates a broader sample of primate taxa from across the
Order.

DOI: 10.1162/jocn_a_01361 
PMCID: PMC6857453
PMID: 30513042  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

