

596. Cells Tissues Organs. 2018;205(5-6):256-278. doi: 10.1159/000493276. Epub 2018
Nov 27.

On the Enigma of the Human Neurenteric Canal.

Rulle A(1), Tsikolia N(2), de Bakker B(3), Drummer C(4), Behr R(4)(5), Viebahn
C(2).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Anatomy and Embryology, University Medical Center Göttingen,
Göttingen, Germany, Alexander.Rulle@stud.uni-goettingen.de.
(2)Institute of Anatomy and Embryology, University Medical Center Göttingen,
Göttingen, Germany.
(3)Department of Medical Biology, Section Clinical Anatomy & Embryology,
Amsterdam UMC, University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(4)Platform Degenerative Diseases, German Primate Center, Leibniz Institute for
Primate Research, Göttingen, Germany.
(5)University Medical Center Göttingen, Göttingen, Germany.

Existence and biomedical relevance of the neurenteric canal, a transient midline 
structure during early neurulation in the human embryo, have been controversially
discussed for more than a century by embryologists and clinicians alike. In this 
study, the authors address the long-standing enigma by high-resolution histology 
and three-dimensional reconstruction using new and historic histological sections
of 5 human 17- to 21-day-old embryos and of 2 marmoset monkey embryos of the
species Callithrix jacchus at corresponding stages. The neurenteric canal
presents itself as the classical vertical connection between the amniotic cavity 
and the yolk sac cavity and is lined (a) craniolaterally by a horseshoe-shaped
"hinge of involuting notochordal cells" within Hensen's node and (b) caudally by 
the receding primitive streak epiblast dorsally and by notochordal plate
epithelium ventrally, the latter of which covered the (longitudinal) notochordal 
canal on its ventral side at the preceding stage. Furthermore, asymmetric
parachordal nodal expression in Callithrix and morphological asymmetries within
the nodes of the other specimens suggest an early non-cilium-dependent left-right
symmetry breaking mode previously postulated for other mammals. We conclude that 
structure and position of the mammalian neurenteric canal support the notion of
its homology with the reptilian blastopore as a whole and with a dorsal segment
of the blastopore in amphibia. These new features of the neurenteric canal may
further clarify the aetiology of foetal malformations such as junctional
neurulation defects, neuroendodermal cysts, and the split notochord syndrome.

© 2018 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000493276 
PMID: 30481762  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

