

600. Front Neuroanat. 2018 Oct 30;12:89. doi: 10.3389/fnana.2018.00089. eCollection
2018.

Axonal Projections From the Middle Temporal Area in the Common Marmoset.

Abe H(1), Tani T(1), Mashiko H(1), Kitamura N(1), Hayami T(2), Watanabe S(2),
Sakai K(2), Suzuki W(2), Mizukami H(3), Watakabe A(4), Yamamori T(4), Ichinohe
N(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Ichinohe Group, Laboratory for Molecular Analysis of Higher Brain Function,
Center for Brain Science, RIKEN, Saitama, Japan.
(2)Department of Ultrastructural Research, National Institute of Neuroscience,
National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, Tokyo, Japan.
(3)Division of Genetic Therapeutics, Center for Molecular Medicine, Jichi Medical
University, Tochigi, Japan.
(4)Laboratory for Molecular Analysis of Higher Brain Function, Center for Brain
Science, RIKEN, Saitama, Japan.

Neural activity in the middle temporal (MT) area is modulated by the direction
and speed of motion of visual stimuli. The area is buried in a sulcus in the
macaque, but exposed to the cortical surface in the marmoset, making the marmoset
an ideal animal model for studying MT function. To better understand the details 
of the roles of this area in cognition, underlying anatomical connections need to
be clarified. Because most anatomical tracing studies in marmosets have used
retrograde tracers, the axonal projections remain uncharacterized. In order to
examine axonal projections from MT, we utilized adeno-associated viral (AAV)
tracers, which work as anterograde tracers by expressing either green or red
fluorescent protein in infected neurons. AAV tracers were injected into three
sites in MT based on retinotopy maps obtained via in vivo optical intrinsic
signal imaging. Brains were sectioned and divided into three series, one for
fluorescent image scanning and two for myelin and Nissl substance staining to
identify specific brain areas. Overall projection patterns were similar across
the injections. MT projected to occipital visual areas V1, V2, V3 (VLP) and V4
(VLA) and surrounding areas in the temporal cortex including MTC (V4T), MST, FST,
FSTv (PGa/IPa) and TE3. There were also projections to the dorsal visual pathway,
V3A (DA), V6 (DM) and V6A, the intraparietal areas AIP, LIP, MIP, frontal A4ab
and the prefrontal cortex, A8aV and A8C. There was a visuotopic relationship with
occipital visual areas. In a marmoset in which two tracer injections were made,
the projection targets did not overlap in A8aV and AIP, suggesting topographic
projections from different parts of MT. Most of these areas are known to send
projections back to MT, suggesting that they are reciprocally connected with it.

DOI: 10.3389/fnana.2018.00089 
PMCID: PMC6218423
PMID: 30425625 

