

601. Neuroimage. 2019 Feb 1;186:301-307. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2018.11.005. Epub
2018 Nov 10.

Intrinsic functional clustering of anterior cingulate cortex in the common
marmoset.

Schaeffer DJ(1), Gilbert KM(1), Ghahremani M(1), Gati JS(1), Menon RS(2),
Everling S(3).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Functional and Metabolic Mapping, Robarts Research Institute,
University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, Canada.
(2)Centre for Functional and Metabolic Mapping, Robarts Research Institute,
University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, Canada; Department of Physiology 
and Pharmacology, University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, Canada.
(3)Centre for Functional and Metabolic Mapping, Robarts Research Institute,
University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, Canada; Department of Physiology 
and Pharmacology, University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, Canada.
Electronic address: severlin@uwo.ca.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) has garnered recent attention as a
potentially powerful preclinical model and complement to other canonical
mammalian models of human brain diseases (e.g., rodents and Old World non-human
primates). With a granular frontal cortex and the advent of transgenic
modifications, marmosets are well positioned to serve as neuropsychiatric models 
of prefrontal cortex dysfunction. A critical step in the development of marmosets
for such models is to characterize functional network topologies of frontal
cortex in healthy, normally functioning marmosets. Here, we sought to
characterize the intrinsic functional connectivity of anterior cingulate cortex
(ACC) in marmosets using resting state functional magnetic resonance imaging
(RS-fMRI). Seven lightly anesthetized marmosets were imaged at ultra-high field
(9.4 T) and hierarchical clustering was employed to extract functional clusters
of ACC from the RS-fMRI data. The data demonstrated three functionally discrete
clusters within ACC. The functional connectivity between these clusters with the 
rest of the brain was also found to be distinct, supporting the hypothesis that
ACC subregions serve different circuits and their concomitant functions. In a
separate seed-based analysis, we also sought to delineate finer-grained patterns 
of ACC connectivity between marmoset primary motor area 4ab and putative eye
movement areas (8aD and 8aV). This analysis demonstrated distinct patterns of ACC
functional connectivity between motor and eye movement regions that overlapped
well with what has been shown in humans and macaques. Overall, these results
demonstrate that marmosets have a network topology of ACC that resembles that of 
Old World primates, giving further credence to the use of marmosets for
preclinical studies of intractable human brain diseases.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2018.11.005 
PMID: 30419289  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

