

603. J Toxicol Sci. 2018;43(11):685-695. doi: 10.2131/jts.43.685.

Approaches of validation of a 2-week combined repeated oral dose toxicity study
with plasma micro sampling toxicokinetics (PMS-TK) in common marmosets.

Mochizuki H(1), Murota N(1), Sato SI(1), Nii K(2), Kouhei Y(2), Taniguchi M(2),
Inoue R(3), Nishime C(3), Tsutsumi H(3).

Author information: 
(1)Ina Research Inc.
(2)Sumika Chemical Analysis Service, Ltd.
(3)Central Institute for Experimental Animals.

We investigated the viability of a combined repeated dose toxicity study,
including toxicokinetics (TK), in common marmosets according to the ICH-S4,
ICH-S3A and ICH-S7A Guidelines using valsartan as test article whose non-clinical
repeated dose toxicity studies had been conducted using this species for
regulatory purpose. Valsartan was administered orally to 3 animals/sex at 200
mg/kg/day for 2 weeks. In addition to the routine parameters in repeated dose
toxicity studies, safety pharmacology parameters (examinations of the central
nervous, respiratory and cardiovascular systems) were also evaluated. The Plasma 
Micro Sampling Toxicokinetics (PMS-TK) method required ultrasensitive
quantitation, was employed to evaluate the relationship between toxic changes and
plasma concentrations as well as the effects of frequent blood sampling in
individual animals. In valsartan, toxic findings (a deteriorated physical
condition; moribundity of one male and one female on Day 14; sporadic vomitus;
decreases in body weights and food consumption; decreases in erythrocytic
parameters; and renal changes such as an increase in urea nitrogen, dilation of
the tubules and hypertrophy of the tubular epithelium) were similar and plasma
concentrations comparable to the results in the approval information.
Furthermore, no side effects caused by frequent blood sampling were confirmed in 
the negative control group. Consequently, a combined repeated dose toxicity study
including TK analysis using the PMS-TK method is viable in common marmosets and
contributes to animal welfare.

DOI: 10.2131/jts.43.685 
PMID: 30405001  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

