

606. Reproduction. 2019 Jan;157(1):101-109. doi: 10.1530/REP-18-0401.

Primordial germ cells do not migrate along nerve fibres in marmoset monkey and
mouse embryos.

Wolff E(1), Suplicki MM(1), Behr R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Research Platform Degenerative Diseases, German Primate Center, Leibniz
Institute for Primate Research, Göttingen, Germany.

Primordial germ cells (PGCs) are the embryonic precursors of spermatozoa and
eggs. In mammals, PGCs arise early in embryonic development and migrate from
their tissue of specification over a significant distance to reach their
destinations, the genital ridges. However, the exact mechanism of translocation
is still debated. A study on human embryos demonstrated a very close spatial
association between migrating PGCs and developing peripheral nerves. Thus, it was
proposed that peripheral nerves act as guiding structures for migrating PGCs. The
goal of the present study is to test whether the association between nerves and
PGCs may be a human-specific finding or whether this represents a general
strategy to guide PGCs in mammals. Therefore, we investigated embryos of
different developmental stages from the mouse and a non-human primate, the
marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus), covering the phase from PGC emergence to
their arrival in the gonadal ridge. Embryo sections were immunohistochemically
co-stained for tubulin beta-3 chain (TUBB3) to visualise neurons and
Octamer-binding protein 4 (OCT4 (POU5F1)) as marker for PGCs. The distance
between PGCs and the nearest detectable neuron was measured. We discovered that
in all embryos analysed of both species, the majority of PGCs (>94%) was found at
a minimum distance of 50 µm to the closest neuron and, more importantly, that the
PGCs had reached the gonads before any TUBB3 signal could be detected in the
vicinity of the gonads. In conclusion, our data indicate that PGC migration along
peripheral nerves is not a general mechanism in mammals.

DOI: 10.1530/REP-18-0401 
PMID: 30390611  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

