

607. Brain Behav. 2018 Dec;8(12):e01148. doi: 10.1002/brb3.1148. Epub 2018 Oct 30.

Sex-biased gene expression in the frontal cortex of common marmosets (Callithrix 
jacchus) and potential behavioral correlates.

Nogueira VB(1), Imparato DO(2), de Souza SJ(3), de Sousa MBC(4).

Author information: 
(1)Health Sciences Graduate Program, Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte,
Natal, Brazil.
(2)Bioinformatics Multidisciplinary Environment, Federal University of Rio Grande
do Norte, Natal, Brazil.
(3)Brain Institute, Bioinformatics Multidisciplinary Environment, Federal
University of Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, Brazil.
(4)Brain Institute and Health Sciences Graduate Program, Federal University of
Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, Brazil.

INTRODUCTION: The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a small New World monkey,
has been widely used as a biological model in neuroscience to elucidate neural
circuits involved in cognition and to understand brain dysfunction in
neuropsychiatric disorders. In this regard, the availability of gene expression
data derived from next-generation sequencing (NGS) technologies represents an
opportunity for a molecular contextualization. Sexual dimorphism account for
differences in diseases prevalence and prognosis. Here, we explore sex
differences on frontal cortex of gene expression in common marmoset's adults.
METHODS: Gene expression profiles in six different tissues (cerebellum, frontal
cortex, liver, heart, and kidney) were analyzed in male and female marmosets. To 
emphasize the translational value of this species for behavioral studies, we
focused on sex-biased gene expression from the frontal cortex of male and female 
in common marmosets and compared to humans (Homo sapiens).
RESULTS: In this study, we found that frontal cortex genes whose expression is
male-biased are conserved between marmosets and humans and enriched with
"house-keeping" functions. On the other hand, female-biased genes are more
related to neural plasticity functions involved in remodeling of synaptic
circuits, stress cascades, and visual behavior. Additionally, we developed and
made available an application-the CajaDB-to provide a friendly interface for
genomic, expression, and alternative splicing data of marmosets together with a
series of functionalities that allow the exploration of these data. CajaDB is
available at cajadb.neuro.ufrn.br.
CONCLUSION: The data point to differences in gene expression of male and female
common marmosets in all tissues analyzed. In frontal cortex, female-biased
expression in synaptic plasticity, stress, and visual processing might be linked 
to biological and behavioral mechanisms of this sex. Due to the limited sample
size, the data here analyzed are for exploratory purposes.

© 2018 Federal Government of Brazil. Brain and Behavior published by Wiley
Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/brb3.1148 
PMCID: PMC6305938
PMID: 30378298  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

