

620. Front Neurosci. 2018 Oct 5;12:706. doi: 10.3389/fnins.2018.00706. eCollection
2018.

Comparing Adult Hippocampal Neurogenesis Across Species: Translating Time to
Predict the Tempo in Humans.

Charvet CJ(1)(2), Finlay BL(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Delaware State University, Dover, DE, United States.
(2)Laboratory of Behavioral and Evolutionary Neuroscience, Department of
Psychology, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY, United States.

Comparison of neurodevelopmental sequences between species whose initial period
of brain organization may vary from 100 days to 1,000 days, and whose progress is
intrinsically non-linear presents large challenges in normalization. Comparing
adult timelines when lifespans stretch from 1 year to 75 years, when underlying
cellular mechanisms under scrutiny do not scale similarly, presents challenges to
simple detection and comparison. The question of adult hippocampal neurogenesis
has generated numerous controversies regarding its simple presence or absence in 
humans versus rodents, whether it is best described as the tail of a distribution
centered on early neural development, or is several distinct processes. In
addition, adult neurogenesis may have substantially changed in evolutionary time 
in different taxonomic groups. Here, we extend and adapt a model of the
cross-species transformation of early neurodevelopmental events which presently
reaches up to the equivalent of the third human postnatal year for 18 mammalian
species (www.translatingtime.net) to address questions relevant to hippocampal
neurogenesis, which permit extending the database to adolescence or perhaps to
the whole lifespan. We acquired quantitative data delimiting the envelope of
hippocampal neurogenesis from cell cycle markers (i.e., Ki67 and DCX) and RNA
sequencing data for two primates (macaque and humans) and two rodents (rat and
mouse). To improve species coverage in primates, we gathered the same data from
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus), but additionally gathered data on a number of
developmental milestones to find equivalent developmental time points between
marmosets and other species. When all species are so modeled, and represented in 
a common time frame, the envelopes of hippocampal neurogenesis are essentially
superimposable. Early developmental events involving the olfactory and limbic
system start and conclude possibly slightly early in primates than rodents, and
we find a comparable early conclusion of primate hippocampal neurogenesis (as
assessed by the relative number of Ki67 cells) suggesting a plateau to low levels
at approximately 2 years of age in humans. Marmosets show equivalent patterns
within neurodevelopment, but unlike macaque and humans may have wholesale delay
in the initiation of neurodevelopment processes previously observed in some
precocial mammals such as the guinea pig and multiple large ungulates.

DOI: 10.3389/fnins.2018.00706 
PMCID: PMC6182078
PMID: 30344473 

