

642. PLoS One. 2018 Sep 27;13(9):e0204580. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0204580.
eCollection 2018.

Immortalization of common marmoset monkey fibroblasts by piggyBac transposition
of hTERT.

Petkov S(1)(2), Kahland T(1), Shomroni O(3), Lingner T(3), Salinas G(3), Fuchs
S(4), Debowski K(1), Behr R(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Platform Degenerative Diseases, German Primate Center- Leibniz Institute for
Primate Research, Göttingen, Germany.
(2)DZHK (German Center for Cardiovascular Research), Partner Site Göttingen,
Göttingen, Germany.
(3)Microarray and Deep-Sequencing Core Facility, University Medical Center
Göttingen (UMG), Göttingen, Germany.
(4)Department of Human Genetics, University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf,
Hamburg, Germany.

Following a certain type-specific number of mitotic divisions, terminally
differentiated cells undergo proliferative senescence, thwarting efforts to
expand different cell populations in vitro for the needs of scientific research
or medical therapies. The primary cause of this phenomenon is the progressive
shortening of the telomeres and the subsequent activation of cell cycle control
pathways leading to a block of cell proliferation. Restoration of telomere length
by transgenic expression of telomerase reverse transcriptase (TERT) usually
results in bypassing of the replicative senescence and ultimately in cell
immortalization. To date, there have not been any reports regarding
immortalization of cells from common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), an important 
non-human primate model for various human diseases, with the use of exogenous
human TERT (hTERT). In this study, marmoset fibroblasts were successfully
immortalized with transposon-integrated transgenic hTERT and expanded in vitro
for over 500 population doublings. Calculation of population doubling levels
(PDL) showed that the derived hTERT-transgenic lines had significantly higher
proliferation potential than the wild-type fibroblasts, which reached only a
maximum of 46 doublings. However, the immortalized cells exhibited differences in
the morphology compared with the control fibroblasts and transcriptome analysis
also revealed changes in the gene expression patterns. Finally, the karyotypes of
all hTERT-transgenic cell lines showed various aberrations such as presence of
extra Chromosome 17, isochromosome 21q, or tetraploidy. By single-cell expansion 
of the least affected monoclonal immortalized line, one sub-clonal line with
normal karyotype was established, suggesting the possibility to derive immortal
marmoset cells with normal karyotypes. The results of this study are an important
step towards the development and optimization of methods for the production of
immortalized cells from common marmoset monkeys.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0204580 
PMCID: PMC6160115
PMID: 30261016  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.

