

652. PLoS One. 2018 Aug 23;13(8):e0202770. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0202770.
eCollection 2018.

Charting the onset of Parkinson-like motor and non-motor symptoms in nonhuman
primate model of Parkinson's disease.

Choudhury GR(1), Daadi MM(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Southwest National Primate Research Center, Texas Biomedical Research
Institute, San Antonio, Texas, United States of America.
(2)Research Imaging Institute, Departments of Radiology, Cell Systems & Anatomy, 
University of Texas Health at San Antonio, Texas, United States of America.

Parkinson's disease is a progressive neurodegenerative disease increasingly
affecting our aging population. Remarkable advances have been made in developing 
novel therapies to control symptoms, halt or cure the disease, ranging from
physiotherapy and small molecules to cell and gene therapy. This progress was
enabled by the existence of reliable animal models. The nonhuman primate model of
Parkinson's disease emulates the cardinal symptoms of the disease, including
tremor, rigidity, bradykinesia, postural instability, freezing and cognitive
impairment. However, this model is established through the specific loss of
midbrain dopaminergic neurons, while our current knowledge reflects the reality
of Parkinson's disease as a multisystem disease. Parkinson's disease involves
both motor and non-motor symptoms, such as sleep disturbance, olfaction,
gastrointestinal dysfunctions, depression and cognitive deficits. Some of the
non-motor symptoms emerge earlier at the prodromal phase and worsen with disease 
progression, yet in basic and translational studies, they are rarely considered
as endpoints. In this study, we set to characterize an ensemble of less described
motor and non-motor dysfunctions in the marmoset MPTP
(1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine) model. We provide evidence that
this animal model expresses postural head tremor and a progressive worsening of
fine motor skills, movement coordination and cognitive abilities over a 6-month
period. We report for the first time a non-invasive approach showing detailed
analysis of daytime and nighttime sleep and circadian rhythm disturbance
remarkably similar to Parkinson's disease patients. This study describes the
incidence of tremors, motor and non-motor dysfunctions in a preclinical model and
highlights the need for their consideration in translating effective new
therapeutic approaches for Parkinson's disease.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0202770 
PMCID: PMC6107255
PMID: 30138454  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Dr. Marcel M. Daadi is founder of the biotech
company NeoNeuron. This does not alter our adherence to PLOS ONE policies on
sharing data and materials.

