

653. Cell Rep. 2018 Aug 21;24(8):2191-2195.e4. doi: 10.1016/j.celrep.2018.07.057.

Calcium Transient Dynamics of Neural Ensembles in the Primary Motor Cortex of
Naturally Behaving Monkeys.

Kondo T(1), Saito R(2), Otaka M(2), Yoshino-Saito K(3), Yamanaka A(4), Yamamori
T(5), Watakabe A(5), Mizukami H(6), Schnitzer MJ(7), Tanaka KF(8), Ushiba J(9),
Okano H(10).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan;
Laboratory for Marmoset Neural Architecture, RIKEN Center for Brain Science,
Saitama, Japan.
(2)Graduate School of Science and Technology, Keio University, Kanagawa, Japan.
(3)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan;
Japan Society for the Promotion of Science, Tokyo, Japan.
(4)Research Institute of Environmental Medicine, Nagoya University, Nagoya,
Japan.
(5)Laboratory for Molecular Analysis of Higher Brain Function, RIKEN Center for
Brain Science, Saitama, Japan.
(6)Division of Genetic Therapeutics, Center for Molecular Medicine, Jichi Medical
University, Tochigi, Japan.
(7)James H. Clark Center for Biomedical Engineering and Sciences, Stanford
University, Stanford, CA, USA; CNC Program, Stanford University, Stanford, CA,
USA; Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Stanford University, Stanford, CA, USA.
(8)Laboratory for Marmoset Neural Architecture, RIKEN Center for Brain Science,
Saitama, Japan; Department of Neuropsychiatry, Keio University School of
Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.
(9)Department of Biosciences and Informatics, Faculty of Science and Technology, 
Keio University, Kanagawa, Japan; Keio Institute of Pure and Applied Sciences
(KiPAS), Kanagawa, Japan. Electronic address: ushiba@brain.bio.keio.ac.jp.
(10)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan;
Laboratory for Marmoset Neural Architecture, RIKEN Center for Brain Science,
Saitama, Japan. Electronic address: hidokano@a2.keio.jp.

To understand brain circuits of cognitive behaviors under natural conditions, we 
developed techniques for imaging neuronal activities from large neuronal
populations in the deep layer cortex of the naturally behaving common marmoset.
Animals retrieved food pellets or climbed ladders as a miniature fluorescence
microscope monitored hundreds of calcium indicator-expressing cortical neurons in
the right primary motor cortex. This technique, which can be adapted to other
brain regions, can deepen our understanding of brain circuits by facilitating
longitudinal population analyses of neuronal representation associated with
cognitive naturalistic behaviors and their pathophysiological processes.

Copyright © 2018 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.celrep.2018.07.057 
PMID: 30134178  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

