

670. IEEE Trans Med Imaging. 2019 Jan;38(1):69-78. doi: 10.1109/TMI.2018.2855736. Epub
2018 Jul 13.

PAT-Probabilistic Axon Tracking for Densely Labeled Neurons in Large 3-D
Micrographs.

Skibbe H, Reisert M, Nakae K, Watakabe A, Hata J, Mizukami H, Okano H, Yamamori
T, Ishii S.

A major goal of contemporary neuroscience research is to map the structural
connectivity of mammalian brain using microscopy imaging data. In this context,
the reconstruction of densely labeled axons from two-photon microscopy images is 
a challenging and important task. The visually overlapping, crossing, and often
strongly distorted images of the axons allow many ambiguous interpretations to be
made. We address the problem of tracking axons in densely labeled samples of
neurons in large image data sets acquired from marmoset brains. Our
high-resolution images were acquired using two-photon microscopy and they
provided whole brain coverage, occupying terabytes of memory. Both the image
distortions and the large data set size frequently make it impractical to apply
present-day neuron tracing algorithms to such data due to the optimization of
such algorithms to the precise tracing of either single or sparse sets of
neurons. Thus, new tracking techniques are needed. We propose a probabilistic
axon tracking algorithm (PAT). PAT tackles the tracking of axons in two steps:
locally (L-PAT) and globally (G-PAT). L-PAT is a probabilistic tracking algorithm
that can tackle distorted, cluttered images of densely labeled axons. L-PAT
divides a large micrograph into smaller image stacks. It then processes each
image stack independently before mapping the axons in each image to a sparse
model of axon trajectories. G-PAT merges the sparse L-PAT models into a single
global model of axon trajectories by minimizing a global objective function using
a probabilistic optimization method. We demonstrate the superior performance of
PAT over standard approaches on synthetic data. Furthermore, we successfully
apply PAT to densely labeled axons in large images acquired from marmoset brains.

DOI: 10.1109/TMI.2018.2855736 
PMID: 30010551  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

