

680. Microb Genom. 2018 Jun;4(6). doi: 10.1099/mgen.0.000183. Epub 2018 Jun 15.

The comparative genomics of Bifidobacterium callitrichos reflects dietary
carbohydrate utilization within the common marmoset gut.

Albert K(1)(2), Rani A(1), Sela DA(1)(2)(3)(4).

Author information: 
(1)1​Department of Food Science, University of Massachusetts, Amherst, MA, USA.
(2)2​Molecular and Cellular Biology Program, University of Massachusetts,
Amherst, MA, USA.
(3)3​Department of Microbiology, University of Massachusetts, Amherst, MA, USA.
(4)4​Department of Microbiology and Physiological Systems, University of
Massachusetts Medical School, Worcester, MA, USA.

Bifidobacterium is a diverse genus of anaerobic, saccharolytic bacteria that
colonize many animals, notably humans and other mammals. The presence of these
bacteria in the gastrointestinal tract represents a potential coevolution between
the gut microbiome and its mammalian host mediated by diet. To study the
relationship between bifidobacterial gut symbionts and host nutrition, we
analyzed the genome of two bifidobacteria strains isolated from the feces of a
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a primate species studied for its ability
to subsist on host-indigestible carbohydrates. Whole genome sequencing identified
these isolates as unique strains of Bifidobacterium callitrichos. All three
strains, including these isolates and the previously described type strain,
contain genes that may enable utilization of marmoset dietary substrates. These
include genes predicted to contribute to galactose, arabinose, and trehalose
metabolic pathways. In addition, significant genomic differences between strains 
suggest that bifidobacteria possess distinct roles in carbohydrate metabolism
within the same host. Thus, bifidobacteria utilize dietary components specific to
their host, both humans and non-human primates alike. Comparative genomics
suggests conservation of possible coevolutionary relationships within the primate
clade.

DOI: 10.1099/mgen.0.000183 
PMCID: PMC6096940
PMID: 29906260  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

