

690. PLoS Negl Trop Dis. 2018 May 9;12(5):e0006474. doi: 10.1371/journal.pntd.0006474.
eCollection 2018 May.

Attenuation and efficacy of live-attenuated Rift Valley fever virus vaccine
candidates in non-human primates.

Smith DR(1), Johnston SC(1), Piper A(1), Botto M(1), Donnelly G(1), Shamblin
J(1), Albariño CG(2), Hensley LE(1), Schmaljohn C(1), Nichol ST(2), Bird BH(2).

Author information: 
(1)United States Army Medical Research Institute of Infectious Diseases
(USAMRIID), Fort Detrick, MD, United States of America.
(2)Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Viral Special Pathogens Branch,
Atlanta, GA, United States of America.

Rift Valley fever virus (RVFV) is an important mosquito-borne veterinary and
human pathogen that has caused large outbreaks of severe disease throughout
Africa and the Arabian Peninsula. Currently, no licensed vaccine or therapeutics 
exists to treat this potentially deadly disease. The explosive nature of RVFV
outbreaks and the severe consequences of its accidental or intentional
introduction into RVFV-free areas provide the impetus for the development of
novel vaccine candidates for use in both livestock and humans. Rationally
designed vaccine candidates using reverse genetics have been used to develop
deletion mutants of two known RVFV virulence factors, the NSs and NSm genes.
These recombinant viruses were demonstrated to be protective and immunogenic in
rats, mice, and sheep, without producing clinical illness in these animals. Here,
we expand upon those findings and evaluate the single deletion mutant (ΔNSs
rRVFV) and double deletion mutant (ΔNSs-ΔNSm rRVFV) vaccine candidates in the
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a non-human primate (NHP) model resembling 
severe human RVF disease. We demonstrate that both the ΔNSs and ΔNSs-ΔNSm rRVFV
vaccine candidates were found to be safe and immunogenic in the current study.
The vaccinated animals received a single dose of vaccine that led to the
development of a robust antibody response. No vaccine-induced adverse reactions, 
signs of clinical illness or infectious virus were detected in the vaccinated
marmosets. All vaccinated animals that were subsequently challenged with RVFV
were protected against viremia and liver disease. In summary, our results provide
the basis for further development of the ΔNSs and ΔNSs-ΔNSm rRVFV as safe and
effective human RVFV vaccines for this significant public health threat.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pntd.0006474 
PMCID: PMC5962102
PMID: 29742102  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.

