

707. Virol J. 2018 Mar 27;15(1):51. doi: 10.1186/s12985-018-0967-x.

Genotype-specific and cross-reactive neutralizing antibodies induced by dengue
virus infection: detection of antibodies with different levels of neutralizing
activities against homologous and heterologous genotypes of dengue virus type 2
in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Azami NAM(1)(2), Moi ML(1)(3), Ami Y(4), Suzaki Y(4), Lim CK(1), Taniguchi S(1), 
Saijo M(1), Takasaki T(5), Kurane I(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Virology 1, National Institute of Infectious Diseases, Tokyo,
Japan.
(2)Graduate School of Comprehensive Human Sciences, University of Tsukuba,
Ibaraki, Japan.
(3)Institute of Tropical Medicine, Nagasaki University, Nagasaki, Japan.
(4)Division of Experimental Animal Research, National Institute of Infectious
Diseases, Tokyo, Japan.
(5)Kanagawa Prefectural Institute of Public Health, Kanagawa, Japan.
(6)National Institute of Infectious Diseases, 1-23-1 Toyama, Shinjuku, Tokyo,
162-8640, Japan. kurane@nih.go.jp.

BACKGROUND: A vaccine against all four dengue virus (DENV) serotypes includes the
formulation of one genotype of each serotype. Although genetic similarities among
genotypes within a serotype are higher as compared to those among serotypes,
differences in the immunogenicity of the included genotypes would be a critical
issue in maximizing successful dengue vaccine development. Thus, we determined
the neutralizing antibody responses against three genotypes of dengue virus
serotype 2 (DENV-2), namely Cosmopolitan, Asian I, and Asian/American, after
primary and secondary inoculation with DENV-2 in a dengue animal model, the
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).
METHODS: A total of fifty-four plasma samples were obtained from thirty-four
marmosets that were inoculated with clinically-isolated DENV strains or DENV
candidate vaccines, were used in this study. Plasma samples were obtained from
marmosets after primary inoculation with DENV-2 infection, secondary inoculation 
with homologous or heterologous genotypes, and tertiary inoculation with
heterologous DENV. Neutralizing antibody titers against DENV-2 (Cosmopolitan,
Asian I, and Asian/American genotypes) and DENV-1 were determined using a
conventional plaque reduction neutralization assay.
RESULTS: In marmosets that were inoculated with the Cosmopolitan genotype in
primary infection, neutralizing antibody neutralized 3 genotypes, and the titers 
to Asian I genotype were significantly higher than those to homologous
Cosmopolitan genotype. After secondary DENV-2 infection with heterologous
genotype (Asian I in primary and Asian/American in secondary), neutralizing
antibody titers to Asian/American genotype was significantly higher than those
against Cosmopolitan and Asian I genotypes. Following tertiary infection with
DENV-1 following DENV-2 Asian I and Cosmopolitan genotypes, neutralizing antibody
titers to Asian/American were also significantly higher than those against
Cosmopolitan and Asian I genotypes.
CONCLUSION: The present study demonstrated that different levels of neutralizing 
antibodies were induced against variable DENV-2 genotypes after primary,
secondary and tertiary infections, and that neutralizing antibody titers to some 
heterologous genotypes were higher than those to homologous genotypes within a
serotype. The results indicate that heterogeneity and homogeneity of infecting
genotypes influence the levels and cross-reactivity of neutralizing antibodies
induced in following infections. The results also suggest that certain genotypes 
may possess advantage in terms of breakthrough infections against vaccination.

DOI: 10.1186/s12985-018-0967-x 
PMCID: PMC5870686
PMID: 29587780  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

