

714. J Vis Exp. 2018 Feb 27;(132). doi: 10.3791/56574.

A Surgical Procedure for the Administration of Drugs to the Inner Ear in a
Non-Human Primate Common Marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Kurihara S(1), Fujioka M(2), Yoshida T(1), Koizumi M(3), Ogawa K(4), Kojima H(5),
Okano HJ(6).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Regenerative Medicine, Jikei University School of Medicine;
Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Jikei University School of Medicine.
(2)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Head and Neck Surgery, Keio University
School of Medicine; masato@2002.jukuin.keio.ac.jp.
(3)Laboratory Animal Facilities, Jikei University School of Medicine.
(4)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Head and Neck Surgery, Keio University
School of Medicine.
(5)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Jikei University School of Medicine.
(6)Division of Regenerative Medicine, Jikei University School of Medicine;
hjokano@jikei.ac.jp.

Hearing research has long been facilitated by rodent models, although in some
diseases, human symptoms cannot be recapitulated. The common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus) is a small, easy-to-handle New World monkey which has a similar anatomy 
of the temporal bone, including the middle ear ossicular chains and inner ear to 
humans, than in comparison with that of rodents. Here, we report a reproducible, 
safe, and rational surgical approach to the cochlear round window niche for the
drug delivery to the inner ear of the common marmoset. We adopted posterior
tympanotomy, a procedure used clinically in human surgery, to avoid manipulation 
of the tympanic membrane that may cause conductive hearing loss. This surgical
procedure did not lead to any significant hearing loss. This approach was
possible due to the large bulla structure of the common marmoset, although the
lateral semicircular canal and vertical portion of the facial nerve should be
carefully considered. This surgical method allows us to perform the safe and
accurate administration of drugs without hearing loss, which is of great
importance in obtaining pre-clinical proof of concept for translational research.

DOI: 10.3791/56574 
PMCID: PMC5931374
PMID: 29553522  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

