

717. J Neural Eng. 2018 Jun;15(3):036019. doi: 10.1088/1741-2552/aab307. Epub 2018 Mar
1.

Accurate motor mapping in awake common marmosets using
micro-electrocorticographical stimulation and stochastic threshold estimation.

Kosugi A(1), Takemi M, Tia B, Castagnola E, Ansaldo A, Sato K, Awiszus F, Seki K,
Ricci D, Fadiga L, Iriki A, Ushiba J.

Author information: 
(1)Graduate School of Science and Technology, Keio University, Kanagawa, Japan.
Laboratory for Symbolic Cognitive Development, RIKEN Brain Science Institute,
Saitama, Japan. Department of Neurophysiology, National Institute of
Neuroscience, Tokyo, Japan.

OBJECTIVE: Motor map has been widely used as an indicator of motor skills and
learning, cortical injury, plasticity, and functional recovery. Cortical
stimulation mapping using epidural electrodes is recently adopted for animal
studies. However, several technical limitations still remain. Test-retest
reliability of epidural cortical stimulation (ECS) mapping has not been examined 
in detail. Many previous studies defined evoked movements and motor thresholds by
visual inspection, and thus, lacked quantitative measurements. A reliable and
quantitative motor map is important to elucidate the mechanisms of motor cortical
reorganization. The objective of the current study was to perform reliable ECS
mapping of motor representations based on the motor thresholds, which were
stochastically estimated by motor evoked potentials and chronically implanted
micro-electrocorticographical (µECoG) electrode arrays, in common marmosets.
APPROACH: ECS was applied using the implanted µECoG electrode arrays in three
adult common marmosets under awake conditions. Motor evoked potentials were
recorded through electromyographical electrodes implanted in upper limb muscles. 
The motor threshold was calculated through a modified maximum likelihood
threshold-hunting algorithm fitted with the recorded data from marmosets.
Further, a computer simulation confirmed reliability of the algorithm.
MAIN RESULTS: Computer simulation suggested that the modified maximum likelihood 
threshold-hunting algorithm enabled to estimate motor threshold with acceptable
precision. In vivo ECS mapping showed high test-retest reliability with respect
to the excitability and location of the cortical forelimb motor representations.
SIGNIFICANCE: Using implanted µECoG electrode arrays and a modified motor
threshold-hunting algorithm, we were able to achieve reliable motor mapping in
common marmosets with the ECS system.

DOI: 10.1088/1741-2552/aab307 
PMID: 29491189  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

