

718. Am J Primatol. 2018 Mar;80(3):e22744. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22744. Epub 2018 Feb 28.

Small but wise: Common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) use acoustic signals as
cues to avoid interactions with blonde capuchin monkeys (Sapajus flavius).

Bastos M(1), Medeiros K(1), Jones G(2), Bezerra B(1).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Zoologia, Centro de Biociências, Programa de Pós-Graduação em 
Biologia Animal, Universidade Federal de Pernambuco, Recife, Brazil.
(2)School of Biological Sciences, University of Bristol, Bristol, United Kingdom.

Vocalizations are often used by animals to communicate and mediate social
interactions. Animals may benefit from eavesdropping on calls from other species 
to avoid predation and thus increase their chances of survival. Here we use both 
observational and experimental evidence to investigate eavesdropping and how
acoustic signals may mediate interactions between two sympatric and endemic
primate species (common marmosets and blonde capuchin monkeys) in a fragment of
Atlantic Rainforest in Northeastern Brazil. We observed 22 natural vocal
encounters between the study species, but no evident visual or physical contact
over the study period. These two species seem to use the same area throughout the
day, but at different times. We broadcasted alarm and long distance calls to and 
from both species as well as two control stimuli (i.e., forest background noise
and a loud call from an Amazonian primate) in our playback experiments. Common
marmosets showed anti-predator behavior (i.e., vigilance and flight) when exposed
to blonde capuchin calls both naturally and experimentally. However, blonde
capuchin monkeys showed no anti-predator behavior in response to common marmoset 
calls. Blonde capuchins uttered long distance calls and looked in the direction
of the speaker following exposure to their own long distance call, whereas they
fled when exposed to their own alarm calls. Both blonde capuchin monkeys and
common marmosets showed fear behaviors in response to the loud call from a
primate species unknown to them, and showed no apparent response to the forest
background noise. Common marmoset responses to blonde capuchin calls suggests
that the latter is a potential predator. Furthermore, common marmosets appear to 
be eavesdropping on calls from blonde capuchin monkeys to avoid potentially
costly encounters with them.

© 2018 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22744 
PMID: 29488642  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

