

719. Anim Cogn. 2018 May;21(3):331-343. doi: 10.1007/s10071-018-1169-z. Epub 2018 Feb 
27.

Individual identity and affective valence in marmoset calls: in vivo brain
imaging with vocal sound playback.

Kato M(1)(2), Yokoyama C(3), Kawasaki A(4), Takeda C(4), Koike T(1), Onoe H(4),
Iriki A(5)(6).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Symbolic Cognitive Development, RIKEN Brain Science Institute, 
Wako, Saitama, Japan.
(2)Research Development Section, Research Promotion Hub, Office for Enhancing
Institutional Capacity, Hokkaido University, Sapporo, Hokkaido, Japan.
(3)Division of Bio-Function Dynamics Imaging, RIKEN Center for Life Science
Technologies, Kobe, Hyogo, Japan. chihiro@riken.jp.
(4)Division of Bio-Function Dynamics Imaging, RIKEN Center for Life Science
Technologies, Kobe, Hyogo, Japan.
(5)Laboratory for Symbolic Cognitive Development, RIKEN Brain Science Institute, 
Wako, Saitama, Japan. iriki@brain.riken.jp.
(6)RIKEN-NTU Research Centre for Human Biology, Lee Kong Chian School of
Medicine, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore, Singapore.
iriki@brain.riken.jp.

As with humans, vocal communication is an important social tool for nonhuman
primates. Common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) often produce whistle-like 'phee'
calls when they are visually separated from conspecifics. The neural processes
specific to phee call perception, however, are largely unknown, despite the
possibility that these processes involve social information. Here, we examined
behavioral and whole-brain mapping evidence regarding the detection of individual
conspecific phee calls using an audio playback procedure. Phee calls evoked sound
exploratory responses when the caller changed, indicating that marmosets can
discriminate between caller identities. Positron emission tomography with [18F]
fluorodeoxyglucose revealed that perception of phee calls from a single subject
was associated with activity in the dorsolateral prefrontal, medial prefrontal,
orbitofrontal cortices, and the amygdala. These findings suggest that these
regions are implicated in cognitive and affective processing of salient social
information. However, phee calls from multiple subjects induced brain activation 
in only some of these regions, such as the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex. We
also found distinctive brain deactivation and functional connectivity associated 
with phee call perception depending on the caller change. According to changes in
pupillary size, phee calls from a single subject induced a higher arousal level
compared with those from multiple subjects. These results suggest that marmoset
phee calls convey information about individual identity and affective valence
depending on the consistency or variability of the caller. Based on the flexible 
perception of the call based on individual recognition, humans and marmosets may 
share some neural mechanisms underlying conspecific vocal perception.

DOI: 10.1007/s10071-018-1169-z 
PMCID: PMC5908821
PMID: 29488110  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

