

728. Restor Neurol Neurosci. 2018;36(1):31-43. doi: 10.3233/RNN-170780.

snRPN controls the ability of neurons to regenerate axons.

Mertsch S(1)(2), Schlicht K(1), Melkonyan H(1), Schlatt S(3), Thanos S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Experimental Ophthalmology and DFG-Excellence Center, Cells in
Motion (CiM, area C.4), School of Medicine, University of M端nster, M端nster,
Germany.
(2)Department of Ophthalmology, Laboratory of Experimental Ophthalmology,
University Clinic Duesseldorf, Duesseldorf, Germany.
(3)Institute of Regenerative Medicine (CeRA) and DFG-Excellence Center, Cells in 
Motion (CiM, area A.2), School of Medicine, University of M端nster, M端nster,
Germany.

BACKGROUND: Retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) of mammals lose the ability to
regenerate injured axons during postnatal maturation, but little is known about
the underlying molecular mechanisms.
OBJECTIVE: It remains of particular importance to understand the mechanisms of
axonal regeneration to develop new therapeutic approaches for nerve injuries.
METHODS: Retinas from newborn to adult monkeys (Callithrix jacchus)1 were
obtained immediately after death and cultured in vitro. Growths of axons were
monitored using microscopy and time-lapse video cinematography.
Immunohistochemistry, Western blotting, qRT-PCR, and genomics were performed to
characterize molecules associated with axonal regeneration and growth. A genomic 
screen was performed by using retinal explants versus native and non-regenerative
explants obtained from eye cadavers on the day of birth, and hybridizing the mRNA
with cross-reacting cDNA on conventional human microarrays. Followed the genomic 
screen, siRNA experiments were conducted to identify the functional involvement
of identified candidates.
RESULTS: Neuron-specific human ribonucleoprotein N (snRPN) was found to be a
potential regulator of impaired axonal regeneration during neuronal maturation in
these animals. In particular, up-regulation of snRPN was observed during retinal 
maturation, coinciding with a decline in regenerative ability. Axon regeneration 
was reactivated in snRPN-knockout retinal ex vivo explants of adult monkey.
CONCLUSION: These results suggest that coordinated snRPN-driven activities within
the neuron-specific ribonucleoprotein complex regulate the regenerative ability
of RGCs in primates, thereby highlighting a potential new role for snRPN within
neurons and the possibility of novel postinjury therapies.

DOI: 10.3233/RNN-170780 
PMID: 29439367  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

