

741. Cereb Cortex. 2019 Mar 1;29(3):994-1005. doi: 10.1093/cercor/bhy006.

Subthreshold Activity Underlying the Diversity and Selectivity of the Primary
Auditory Cortex Studied by Intracellular Recordings in Awake Marmosets.

Gao L(1)(2), Wang X(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(2)Interdisciplinary Institute of Neuroscience and Technology, Qiushi Academy for
Advanced Studies, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, People's Republic of China.

Extracellular recording studies have revealed diverse and selective neural
responses in the primary auditory cortex (A1) of awake animals. However, we have 
limited knowledge on subthreshold events that give rise to these responses,
especially in non-human primates, as intracellular recordings in awake animals
pose substantial technical challenges. We developed a novel intracellular
recording technique in awake marmosets to systematically study subthreshold
activity of A1 neurons that underlies their diverse and selective spiking
responses. Our findings showed that in contrast to predominantly transient
depolarization observed in A1 of anesthetized animals, both transient and
sustained depolarization (during or beyond the stimulus period) were observed.
Comparing with spiking responses, subthreshold responses were often longer
lasting in duration and more broadly tuned in frequency, and showed narrower
intensity tuning in non-monotonic neurons and lower response threshold in
monotonic neurons. These observations demonstrated the enhancement of stimulus
selectivity from subthreshold to spiking responses in individual A1 neurons.
Furthermore, A1 neurons classified as regular- or fast-spiking subpopulation
based on their spike shapes exhibited distinct response properties in frequency
and intensity domains. These findings provide valuable insights into cortical
integration and transformation of auditory information at the cellular level in
auditory cortex of awake non-human primates.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhy006 
PMCID: PMC6373684
PMID: 29377991  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

