

75. Cereb Cortex. 2021 Sep 13. pii: bhab328. doi: 10.1093/cercor/bhab328. [Epub ahead
of print]

Functional Organization of Frontoparietal Cortex in the Marmoset Investigated
with Awake Resting-State fMRI.

Hori Y(1), Cléry JC(1), Schaeffer DJ(2), Menon RS(1), Everling S(1)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Functional and Metabolic Mapping, Robarts Research Institute, The
University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario N6A 5B7, Canada.
(2)Department of Neurobiology, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA 15261,
USA.
(3)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, The University of Western Ontario, 
London, Ontario N6A 5C1, Canada.

Frontoparietal networks contribute to complex cognitive functions in humans and
macaques, such as working memory, attention, task-switching, response
suppression, grasping, reaching, and eye movement control. However, there has
been no comprehensive examination of the functional organization of
frontoparietal networks using functional magnetic resonance imaging in the New
World common marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus), which is now widely recognized
as a powerful nonhuman primate experimental animal. In this study, we employed
hierarchical clustering of interareal blood oxygen level-dependent signals to
investigate the hypothesis that the organization of the frontoparietal cortex in 
the marmoset follows the organizational principles of the macaque frontoparietal 
system. We found that the posterior part of the lateral frontal cortex (premotor 
regions) was functionally connected to the anterior parietal areas, while more
anterior frontal regions (frontal eye field [FEF]) were connected to more
posterior parietal areas (the region around the lateral intraparietal area
[LIP]). These overarching patterns of interareal organization are consistent with
a recent macaque study. These findings demonstrate parallel frontoparietal
processing streams in marmosets and support the functional similarities of
FEF-LIP and premotor-anterior parietal pathways between marmoset and macaque.

© The Author(s) 2021. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. 
For permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhab328 
PMID: 34515315 

