

750. J Comp Neurol. 2019 Feb 15;527(3):535-545. doi: 10.1002/cne.24390. Epub 2018 Jan 
25.

Projections of three subcortical visual centers to marmoset lateral geniculate
nucleus.

Zeater N(1)(2)(3), Buzás P(4), Dreher B(3), Grünert U(1)(2)(3), Martin
PR(1)(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Save Sight Institute and Department of Clinical Ophthalmology, The University 
of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.
(2)Australian Research Council Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain
Function, The University of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.
(3)School of Medical Sciences, The University of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales,
Australia.
(4)Institute of Physiology, Medical School, University of Pécs, Pécs, Hungary.

The dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus receives projections from visuotopically
organized subcortical nuclei, in addition to inputs from the retina, visual
cortices, and the thalamic reticular nucleus. Here, we study subcortical
projections to the geniculate from the superior colliculus (SC) and parabigeminal
nucleus (PBG) in the midbrain, and the nucleus of the optic tract (NOT) in the
pretectum of marmosets. Marmosets are New World diurnal foveate monkeys, and are 
an increasingly popular model for studying the primate visual system.
Furthermore, the koniocellular geniculate layers in marmosets, unlike those in
the geniculate of commonly studied diurnal Old World monkeys, are well
differentiated from the parvocellular and magnocellular layers. Thus, in the
present study, we have made small iontophoretic injections of the retrograde
tracer microruby, targeted to the koniocellular layers in the geniculates of four
marmosets. We found direct projections from the ipsilateral SC, PBG, and NOT to
the koniocellular geniculate layers. The distribution of retrogradely labeled
cells in the superficial, visual layers of SC is consistent with the idea that
projections from the SC to the koniocellular layers are visuotopically organized.
A little over 20 years ago, Vivien Casagrande () introduced the idea that
koniocellular geniculate layers (rather than the parvocellular and magnocellular 
layers) are principal targets of visuotopically organized subcortical nuclei. Our
results add to subsequent evidence assembled by Casagrande and others in favor of
this hypothesis.

© 2018 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.24390 
PMID: 29315552  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

