

751. Cereb Cortex. 2019 Feb 1;29(2):615-626. doi: 10.1093/cercor/bhx344.

Correlated Variability in the Neurons With the Strongest Tuning Improves
Direction Coding.

Zavitz E(1)(2)(3), Yu HH(1)(2)(3), Rosa MGP(1)(2)(3), Price NSC(1)(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Clayton, Victoria, Australia.
(2)Biomedicine Discovery Institute, Monash University, Clayton, Victoria,
Australia.
(3)Australian Research Council Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain
Function, Monash University Node, Clayton, VIC, Australia.

Sensory perception depends on neuronal populations creating an accurate
representation of the external world. The amount of information that a population
can represent depends on the tuning of individual neurons and the trial-by-trial 
variability shared among neurons. Although on average, pairwise spike-count
correlations between neurons are positive, the distribution is wide, and the
relationship between correlations and encoding is not straightforward. Here, we
examine how single-neuron and population-level factors impact the efficacy of the
neural code. We recorded responses to moving visual stimuli from motion-sensitive
neurons in the middle temporal area of anesthetized marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus) and trained decoders to assess how correlated and uncorrelated
populations encoded stimulus motion direction. We found that the most responsive,
direction-selective, and least variable neurons are the most relied-upon neurons 
in an uncorrelated population. In correlated populations, the same neurons do the
most to shape the shared variability across the population in a way that
facilitates decoding, and decoding is improved by the presence of temporally
stable correlations. This suggests that the least variable neurons with the
strongest stimulus representations enhance the population code by providing a
strong signal and shaping correlations in variability orthogonally to the locus
defined by the mean response.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhx344 
PMID: 29300838  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

