

755. J Comp Neurol. 2019 Feb 15;527(3):558-576. doi: 10.1002/cne.24387. Epub 2018 Jan 
13.

Unravelling the subcortical and retinal circuitry of the primate inferior
pulvinar.

Kwan WC(1), Mundinano IC(1), de Souza MJ(1), Lee SCS(2)(3), Martin PR(2)(3)(4),
Grünert U(2)(3)(4), Bourne JA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Australian Regenerative Medicine Institute, Monash University, Clayton,
Victoria, Australia.
(2)Save Sight Institute and Department of Clinical Ophthalmology, The University 
of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.
(3)Australian Research Council Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain
Function, Sydney Node, The University of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales,
Australia.
(4)School of Medical Sciences, The University of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales,
Australia.

The primate visual brain possesses a myriad of pathways, whereby visual
information originating at the retina is transmitted to multiple subcortical
areas in parallel, before being relayed onto the visual cortex. The dominant
retinogeniculostriate pathway has been an area of extensive study, and Vivien
Casagrande's work in examining the once overlooked koniocellular pathway of the
lateral geniculate nucleus has generated interest in how alternate subcortical
pathways can contribute to visual perception. Another subcortical visual relay
center is the inferior pulvinar (PI), which has four subdivisions and numerous
connections with other subcortical and cortical areas and is directly recipient
of retinal afferents. The complexity of subcortical connections associated with
the PI subdivisions has led to differing results from various groups. A
particular challenge in determining the exact connectivity pattern has been in
accurately targeting the subdivisions of the PI with neural tracers. Therefore,
in the present study, we used a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)-guided
stereotaxic injection system to inject bidirectional tracers in the separate
subdivisions of the PI, the superior layers of the superior colliculus, the
retina, and the lateral geniculate nucleus. Our results have determined for the
first time that the medial inferior pulvinar (PIm) is innervated by widefield
retinal ganglion cells (RGCs), and this pathway is not a collateral branch of the
geniculate and collicular projecting RGCs. Furthermore, our tracing data shows no
evidence of collicular terminations in the PIm, which are confined to the
centromedial and posterior PI.

© 2018 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.24387 
PMID: 29292493  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

