

76. Cereb Cortex. 2021 Sep 8. pii: bhab240. doi: 10.1093/cercor/bhab240. [Epub ahead 
of print]

Differential Effects of the Inactivation of Anterior and Posterior Orbitofrontal 
Cortex on Affective Responses to Proximal and Distal Threat, and Reward
Anticipation in the Common Marmoset.

Stawicka ZM(1)(2), Massoudi R(1)(2), Oikonomidis L(1)(2), McIver L(1)(2),
Mulvihill K(1), Quah SKL(1)(2), Cockcroft GJ, Clarke HF(1)(2), Horst NK(3)(4),
Wood CM(1)(2), Roberts AC(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Development and Neuroscience, University of
Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 3DY, UK.
(2)Behavioral and Clinical Neuroscience Institute, University of Cambridge,
Cambridge CB2 3EB, UK.
(3)Now at Cambridge Centre for Teaching and Learning, University of Cambridge,
Cambridge CB2 3PT, UK.
(4)Now at Postdoc Academy, University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB3 1AS, UK.

Structural and functional abnormalities of the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) have
been implicated in affective disorders that manifest anxiety-related symptoms.
However, research into the functions of primate OFC has predominantly focused on 
reward-oriented rather than threat-oriented responses. To redress this imbalance,
the present study performed a comprehensive analysis of the independent role of 2
distinct subregions of the central OFC (anterior area 11; aOFC and posterior area
13; pOFC) in the processing of distal and proximal threat. Temporary inactivation
of both aOFC and pOFC heightened responses to distal threat in the form of an
unknown human, but not to proximal threat assessed in a discriminative Pavlovian 
conditioning task. Inactivation of the aOFC, however, did unexpectedly blunt
conditioned threat responses, although the effect was not valence-specific, as
conditioned appetitive responses were similarly blunted and appeared restricted
to a discriminative version of the task (when both CS- and CS+ are present within
a session). Inactivation of the pOFC did not affect conditioned responses to
either proximal threat or reward and basal cardiovascular activity was unaffected
by manipulations of activity in either subregion. The results highlight the
contribution of aOFC and pOFC to regulation of responses to more distal uncertain
but not proximal, certain threat and reveal their opposing contribution to that
of the immediately adjacent medial OFC, area 14.

© The Author(s) 2021. Published by Oxford University Press.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhab240 
PMID: 34494095 

