

761. Physiol Behav. 2018 Mar 1;185:14-22. doi: 10.1016/j.physbeh.2017.12.018. Epub
2017 Dec 15.

Measuring physiological stress in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus):
Validation of a salivary cortisol collection and assay technique.

Ash H(1), Smith TE(2), Knight S(3), Buchanan-Smith HM(4).

Author information: 
(1)Behaviour and Evolution Research Group, Scottish Primate Research Group,
Psychology, Faculty of Natural Sciences, University of Stirling, Scotland, UK.
Electronic address: hmash@wisc.edu.
(2)Department of Biology, University of Chester, Parkgate Road, Chester, England,
UK.
(3)Biomedical Sciences, Defence Science and Technology Laboratory (Dstl), Porton 
Down, Salisbury, Wiltshire, UK.
(4)Behaviour and Evolution Research Group, Scottish Primate Research Group,
Psychology, Faculty of Natural Sciences, University of Stirling, Scotland, UK.

Cortisol levels are often used as a physiological measure of the stress response 
in captive primates, with non-invasive measures of this being an important step
in welfare assessment. We report a method of collecting saliva samples
voluntarily from unrestrained captive common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus), and 
validate an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) technique previously unused
in this species. Saliva samples were collected from marmosets housed in pairs in 
a UK laboratory. The assay showed parallelism, precision, accuracy and
sensitivity, meeting the criteria typically used to investigate the effectiveness
of new analytical techniques. Use of Salimetrics® Oral Swabs considerably
increased the amount of cortisol recovered in comparison with previous studies
using cotton buds. However, while use of banana on the swabs can encourage
chewing, it may influence results. Although increases in cortisol levels have
traditionally been interpreted as an indicator of stress in primates, there are
many factors that affect the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis, with some
studies showing decreases in cortisol levels post-stressor. Following a likely
stressful event (capture for weighing), we also found cortisol levels
significantly decreased, possibly due to social buffering or 'blunting' of the
HPA axis. Order of weighing also had an effect. The method therefore provided an 
effective non-invasive means of assessing acute changes in cortisol level that
may be more useful than previous methods, improving our ability to study
physiological aspects of welfare in primates. We discuss methodological
considerations, as well as implications of using cortisol as a measure of stress.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.physbeh.2017.12.018 
PMID: 29248632  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

