

772. PLoS One. 2017 Nov 27;12(11):e0188412. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0188412.
eCollection 2017.

High Trypanosoma spp. diversity is maintained by bats and triatomines in Espírito
Santo state, Brazil.

Dario MA(1), Lisboa CV(1), Costa LM(2), Moratelli R(3), Nascimento MP(4), Costa
LP(4), Leite YLR(4), Llewellyn MS(5), Xavier SCDC(1), Roque ALR(1), Jansen AM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Biologia de Tripanosomatídeos, Instituto Oswaldo Cruz, Fundação
Oswaldo Cruz, Rio de Janeiro/RJ, Brazil.
(2)Laboratório de Ecologia de Mamíferos, Universidade do Estado do Rio de
Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro/RJ, Brazil.
(3)Fiocruz Mata Atlântica, Fundação Oswaldo Cruz, Rio de Janeiro/RJ, Brazil.
(4)Departamento de Ciências Biológicas, Centro de Ciências Humanas e Naturais,
Universidade Federal do Espírito Santo, Vitória/ES, Brazil.
(5)Institute of Biodiversity, Animal Health and Comparative Medicine, University 
of Glasgow, Glasgow, Scotland, United Kingdom.

The aim of this study was to reevaluate the ecology of an area in the Atlantic
Forest, southeast Brazil, where Chagas disease (CD) has been found to occur. In a
previous study, immediately after the occurrence of a CD case, we did not observe
any sylvatic small mammals or dogs with Trypanosoma cruzi cruzi infections, but
Triatoma vitticeps presented high T. c. cruzi infection rates. In this study, we 
investigated bats together with non-volant mammals, dogs, and triatomines to
explore other possible T. c. cruzi reservoirs/hosts in the area. Seventy-three
non-volant mammals and 186 bats were captured at three sites within the Guarapari
municipality, Espírito Santo state. Rio da Prata and Amarelos sites exhibited
greater richness in terms of non-volant mammals and bats species, respectively.
The marsupial Metachirus nudicaudatus, the rodent Trinomys paratus, and the bats 
Artibeus lituratus and Carollia perspicillata were the most frequently captured
species. As determined by positive hemocultures, only two non-volant mammals were
found to be infected by Trypanosoma species: Monodelphis americana, which was
infected by T. cascavelli, T. dionisii and Trypanosoma sp., and Callithrix
geoffroyi, which was infected by T. minasense. Bats presented T. c. cruzi TcI and
TcIII/V, T. c. marinkellei, T. dionisii, T. rangeli B and D, and Trypanosoma sp. 
infections. Seven dogs were infected with T. cruzi based only on serological
exams. The triatomines T. vitticeps and Panstrongylus geniculatus were found to
be infected by trypanosomes via microscopy. According to molecular
characterization, T. vitticeps specimens were infected with T. c. cruzi TcI,
TcII, TcIII/V, and TcIV, T. c. marinkellei and T. dionisii. We observed high
trypanosome diversity in a small and fragmented region of the Atlantic Forest.
This diversity was primarily maintained by bats and T. vitticeps. Our findings
show that the host specificity of the Trypanosoma genus should be thoroughly
reviewed. In addition, our data show that CD cases can occur without an enzootic 
cycle near residential areas.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0188412 
PMCID: PMC5703495
PMID: 29176770  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

