

777. J Gen Virol. 2017 Dec;98(12):2955-2967. doi: 10.1099/jgv.0.000913. Epub 2017 Nov 
21.

Marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) as a non-human primate model for evaluation of
candidate dengue vaccines: induction and maintenance of specific protective
immunity against challenges with clinical isolates.

Moi ML(1), Ami Y(2), Muhammad Azami NA(3), Shirai K(4), Yoksan S(5), Suzaki Y(2),
Kitaura K(4), Lim CK(3), Saijo M(3), Suzuki R(4), Takasaki T(6), Kurane I(7).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Tropical Medicine, Nagasaki University, Nagasaki, Japan.
(2)Division of Experimental Animal Research, National Institute of Infectious
Diseases, Musashimurayama, Tokyo, Japan.
(3)Department of Virology I, National Institute of Infectious Diseases, Tokyo,
Japan.
(4)Department of Rheumatology and Clinical Immunology, Clinical Research Center
for Allergy and Rheumatology, Sagamihara National Hospital, National Hospital
Organization, Kanagawa, Japan.
(5)Institute of Molecular Biosciences, Mahidol University, Salaya, Nakhon Pathom,
Thailand.
(6)Kanagawa Prefectural Institute of Public Health, Kanagawa, Japan.
(7)National Institute of Infectious Diseases, Tokyo, Japan.

Dengue virus (DENV) is one of the major infectious diseases in tropical regions
and approximately half of the world population is at risk of infection. Vaccines 
would offer an effective control measure against this disease. We previously
reported on the utility of marmosets as an animal model for studying primary and 
secondary dengue infections. Infected marmosets consistently develop viraemia and
antibody kinetics that reflect those of patients with dengue. Thus, it is
important to determine the utility of marmosets as an animal model for
demonstrating vaccine efficacy. In this study, marmosets were inoculated with
candidate vaccine and parent strains and challenged with a clinical DENV strain. 
The viraemia and antibody kinetics in these marmosets were determined. Marmosets 
consistently develop lower viraemia with an attenuated vaccine strain. During
secondary challenge, the IgM response was delayed, whereas the IgG levels rose
rapidly, indicating a secondary antibody response. The neutralizing activities
against the homotypic serotype were high; all marmosets were protected against
viraemia following secondary inoculation. The viraemia markers and antibody
responses were consistent with those of human DENV infection and vaccinees. These
results demonstrate the utility of marmosets as an animal model for the study of 
vaccine efficacy.

DOI: 10.1099/jgv.0.000913 
PMID: 29160199  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

