

781. PLoS One. 2017 Nov 14;12(11):e0188013. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0188013.
eCollection 2017.

Severe oxidative stress in an acute inflammatory demyelinating model in the
rhesus monkey.

Dunham J(1)(2), van de Vis R(1), Bauer J(3), Wubben J(1), van Driel N(1), Laman
JD(2), 't Hart BA(1)(2), Kap YS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Rijswijk, The
Netherlands.
(2)University Groningen, University Medical Center, Department of Neuroscience,
Groningen, The Netherlands.
(3)Department Neuroimmunology, Brain Research Institute, Medical University,
Vienna, Austria.

Oxidative stress is increasingly implicated as a co-factor of tissue injury in
inflammatory/demyelinating disorders of the central nervous system (CNS), such as
multiple sclerosis (MS). While rodent experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis
(EAE) models diverge from human demyelinating disorders with respect to limited
oxidative injury, we observed that in a non-human primate (NHP) model for MS,
namely EAE in the common marmoset, key pathological features of the disease were 
recapitulated, including oxidative tissue injury. Here, we investigated the
presence of oxidative injury in another NHP EAE model, i.e. in rhesus macaques,
which yields an acute demyelinating disease, which may more closely resemble
acute disseminated encephalomyelitis (ADEM) than MS. Rhesus monkey EAE diverges
from marmoset EAE by abundant neutrophil recruitment into the CNS and destructive
injury to white matter. This difference prompted us to investigate to which
extent the oxidative pathway features elicited in MS and marmoset EAE are
reflected in the acute rhesus monkey EAE model. The rhesus EAE brain was
characterized by widespread demyelination and active lesions containing numerous 
phagocytic cells and to a lesser extent T cells. We observed induction of the
oxidative stress pathway, including injury, with a predilection of p22phox
expression in neutrophils and macrophages/microglia. In addition, changes in iron
were observed. These results indicate that pathogenic mechanisms in the rhesus
EAE model may differ from the marmoset EAE and MS brain due to the neutrophil
involvement, but may in the end lead to similar induction of oxidative stress and
injury.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0188013 
PMCID: PMC5685592
PMID: 29136024  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

