

782. Vision Res. 2018 Oct;151:41-52. doi: 10.1016/j.visres.2017.09.002. Epub 2017 Nov 
22.

Chromatic summation and receptive field properties of blue-on and blue-off cells 
in marmoset lateral geniculate nucleus.

Eiber CD(1), Pietersen ANJ(2), Zeater N(3), Solomon SG(4), Martin PR(5).

Author information: 
(1)Save Sight Institute, University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia; School of
Medical Sciences, University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia; Australian Research
Council Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain Function, University of
Sydney, Australia. Electronic address: calvin.eiber@sydney.edu.au.
(2)Save Sight Institute, University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia; School of
Medical Sciences, University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia; Australian Research
Council Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain Function, University of
Sydney, Australia. Electronic address: alexander.pietersen@sydney.edu.au.
(3)Save Sight Institute, University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia; School of
Medical Sciences, University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia; Australian Research
Council Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain Function, University of
Sydney, Australia. Electronic address: natalie.zeater@sydney.edu.au.
(4)School of Medical Sciences, University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia;
Department of Experimental Psychology, University College London, United Kingdom.
Electronic address: samuels@physiol.usyd.edu.au.
(5)Save Sight Institute, University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia; School of
Medical Sciences, University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia; Australian Research
Council Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain Function, University of
Sydney, Australia. Electronic address: prmartin@physiol.usyd.edu.au.

The "blue-on" and "blue-off" receptive fields in retina and dorsal lateral
geniculate nucleus (LGN) of diurnal primates combine signals from
short-wavelength sensitive (S) cone photoreceptors with signals from medium/long 
wavelength sensitive (ML) photoreceptors. Three questions about this combination 
remain unresolved. Firstly, is the combination of S and ML signals in these cells
linear or non-linear? Secondly, how does the timing of S and ML inputs to these
cells influence their responses? Thirdly, is there spatial antagonism within S
and ML subunits of the receptive field of these cells? We measured contrast
sensitivity and spatial frequency tuning for four types of drifting sine
gratings: S cone isolating, ML cone isolating, achromatic (S + ML), and
counterphase chromatic (S - ML), in extracellular recordings from LGN of marmoset
monkeys. We found that responses to stimuli which modulate both S and ML cones
are well predicted by a linear sum of S and ML signals, followed by a saturating 
contrast-response relation. Differences in sensitivity and timing (i.e. vector
combination) between S and ML inputs are needed to explain the amplitude and
phase of responses to achromatic (S + ML) and counterphase chromatic (S - ML)
stimuli. Best-fit spatial receptive fields for S and/or ML subunits in most cells
(>80%) required antagonistic surrounds, usually in the S subunit. The surrounds
were however generally weak and had little influence on spatial tuning. The
sensitivity and size of S and ML subunits were correlated on a cell-by-cell
basis, adding to evidence that blue-on and blue-off receptive fields are
specialised to signal chromatic but not spatial contrast.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.visres.2017.09.002 
PMID: 29129732  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

