

788. Am J Primatol. 2017 Dec;79(12). doi: 10.1002/ajp.22718. Epub 2017 Oct 26.

Spatial distribution of buffy-tufted-ear (Callithrix aurita) and invasive
marmosets (Callithrix spp.) in a tropical rainforest reserve in southeastern
Brazil.

Detogne N(1), Ferreguetti ÁC(1), Mello JHF(1), Santana MC(1), da Conceição Dias
A(1), da Mota NCJ(1), Esteves da Cruz Gonçalves A(2), de Souza CP(1), Bergallo
HG(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology, Institute of Biology, Rio de Janeiro State University, 
Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
(2)Department of Clinical Veterinary Medicine and Reprodution Animal, Fluminense 
Federal University, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.

We investigated the spatial distribution of native and invasive marmoset species 
(Callithrix), as well as their hybrids, in the Serra dos Órgãos National Park
(PARNASO) and surrounding area in Rio de Janeiro state, Brazil. To estimate
occupancy and the detection probability, we surveyed 56 sites within the park and
52 sites outside its limits using vocal playbacks, as well as by interviewing
local residents in the surrounding area. We estimated the occupancy and detection
probability of Callithrix aurita and the observed groups composed of Callithrix
jacchus, Callithrix penicillata, and their hybrids. We also recorded the presence
or absence of mixed groups of native and exotic species, and their hybrids. We
recorded similar occupancy rates and detection probabilities for both native and 
invasive species within the national park. C. aurita was found more often within 
the areas of the park located furthest from access roads and with the least human
interference, while invasive species were more likely to be found along the edge 
of the park and in areas with greater human interference. In the area surrounding
the park, invasive marmosets were recorded at seven sites, and a mixed group of
native and invasive marmosets was observed at one site, but non-hybrid C. aurita 
groups were not recorded. The occupancy probability of C. aurita in the study
area is relatively low, which may indicate a low population density, with groups 
restricted to a small region within the PARNASO in the proximity of groups of
invasive marmosets.

© 2017 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22718 
PMID: 29072335  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

