

797. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 2018 Jan;118:156-171. doi: 10.1016/j.ympev.2017.10.002. Epub
2017 Oct 6.

Phenotypic evolution in marmoset and tamarin monkeys (Cebidae, Callitrichinae)
and a revised genus-level classification.

Garbino GST(1), Martins-Junior AMG(2).

Author information: 
(1)PPG-Zoologia, Departamento de Zoologia, Instituto de Ciências Biológicas,
Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, Brazil. Electronic address:
antonio_mgmartins@hotmail.com.
(2)Laboratório de Genética e Evolução, Instituto Federal do Pará, Campus de
Tucuruí, Brazil; Centro de Genômica e Biologia de Sistemas, Universidade Federal 
do Pará, Belém, Brazil.

Marmosets and tamarins (Cebidae, Callitrichinae) constitute the most species-rich
subfamily of New World monkeys and one of the most diverse phenotypically.
Despite the profusion of molecular phylogenies of the group, the evolution of
phenotypic characters under the rapidly-emerging consensual phylogeny of the
subfamily has been little studied, resulting in taxonomic proposals that have
limited support from other datasets. We examined the evolution of 18 phenotypic
traits (5 continuous and 13 discrete), including pelage, skull, dentition,
postcrania, life-history and vocalization variables in a robust molecular
phylogeny of marmoset and tamarin monkeys, quantifying their phylogenetic signal 
and correlations among some of the traits. At the family level, our resulting
topology supports owl monkeys (Aotinae) as sister group of Callitrichinae. The
topology of the callitrichine tree was congruent with previous studies except for
the position of the midas group of Saguinus tamarins, which placement as sister
of the bicolor group did not receive significant statistical support in both
Maximum Parsimony and Bayesian Inference analyses. Our results showed that the
highest value of phylogenetic signal among continuous traits was displayed by the
long call character and the lowest was exhibited in the home range, intermediate 
values were found in characters related to osteology and skull size. Among
discrete traits, pelage and osteology had similar phylogenetic signal. Based on
genetic, osteological, pelage and vocalization data, we present an updated
genus-level taxonomy of Callitrichinae, which recognizes six genera in the
subfamily: Callimico, Callithrix, Cebuella, Mico, Leontopithecus and Saguinus. To
reflect their phenotypic distinctiveness and to avoid the use of the informal
"species group", we subdivided Saguinus in the subgenera Leontocebus, Saguinus
and Tamarinus (revalidated here).

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ympev.2017.10.002 
PMID: 28989098  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

