

799. Front Psychiatry. 2017 Sep 21;8:175. doi: 10.3389/fpsyt.2017.00175. eCollection
2017.

Common Marmosets: A Potential Translational Animal Model of Juvenile Depression.

Galvão-Coelho NL(1)(2)(3), Galvão ACM(1)(2), da Silva FS(1)(2), de Sousa
MBC(1)(2)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Hormone Measurement, Department of Physiology, Federal
University of Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, Brazil.
(2)Postgraduate Program in Psychobiology, Federal University of Rio Grande do
Norte, Natal, Brazil.
(3)National Institute of Science and Technology in Translational Medicine Natal, 
Natal, Brazil.
(4)Brain Institute, Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, Brazil.

Major depression is a psychiatric disorder with high prevalence in the general
population, with increasing expression in adolescence, about 14% in young people.
Frequently, it presents as a chronic condition, showing no remission even after
several pharmacological treatments and persisting in adult life. Therefore,
distinct protocols and animal models have been developed to increase the
understanding of this disease or search for new therapies. To this end, this
study investigated the effects of chronic social isolation and the potential
antidepressant action of nortriptyline in juvenile Callithrix jacchus males and
females by monitoring fecal cortisol, body weight, and behavioral parameters and 
searching for biomarkers and a protocol for inducing depression. The purpose was 
to validate this species and protocol as a translational model of juvenile
depression, addressing all domain criteria of validation: etiologic, face,
functional, predictive, inter-relational, evolutionary, and population. In both
sexes and both protocols (IDS and DPT), we observed a significant reduction in
cortisol levels in the last phase of social isolation, concomitant with increases
in autogrooming, stereotyped and anxiety behaviors, and the presence of
anhedonia. The alterations induced by chronic social isolation are characteristic
of the depressive state in non-human primates and/or in humans, and were reversed
in large part by treatment with an antidepressant drug (nortriptyline).
Therefore, these results indicate C. jacchus as a potential translational model
of juvenile depression by addressing all criteria of validation.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyt.2017.00175 
PMCID: PMC5613153
PMID: 28983260 

