

804. PLoS One. 2017 Sep 28;12(9):e0185695. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0185695.
eCollection 2017.

Fathering style influences health outcome in common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus)
offspring.

Ziegler TE(1), Sosa ME(1), Colman RJ(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin, Madison, 
Wisconsin, United States of America.
(2)Department of Cell and Regenerative Medicine, School of Medicine and Public
Health, University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wisconsin, United States of America.

In the cooperative breeding common marmoset monkey, Callithrix jacchus, fathers
share the care responsibility and energetic load with their mate from the time
their infants are born. However, not all fathers show the same level of
participation in direct infant care. Here we present the first results
demonstrating that fathering style can improve both survival and growth
trajectory of a male's offspring during the first 30 weeks of life and that these
infant outcomes are consistent within a father throughout successive births.
Twenty-four marmoset fathers were tested for their responsiveness to an infant
distress call when their infants were approximately two weeks old. These fathers 
were categorized as either responsive (RS) or nonresponsive (NRS) based on their 
response to the calls. Survival past 1 month was then determined and bi-monthly
weights of current infants through 30 weeks of age were taken. Infant survival to
the first month was significantly higher with RS fathers than with NRS fathers
during this critical time period. Infants from RS fathers also had a higher
growth trajectory with significant differences in body weight in the 28th and
30th week after birth. Only the RS fathers showed a significant increase in serum
testosterone in response to infant cries suggesting a physiological role of
testosterone in the motivation to search for the infant. Furthermore, all
offspring born to RS fathers from subsequent births also showed a significantly
higher survival rate and higher growth trajectory than for offspring of NRS
fathers. These results suggest that fathering style is a consistent trait and
responsive fathers improve infant survival rate and growth during the first 30
weeks. Such fathering style traits may be passed on to the male offspring due to 
environmental or genetic factors.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0185695 
PMCID: PMC5619809
PMID: 28957433  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

