

814. DNA Res. 2017 Aug 1;24(4):377-385. doi: 10.1093/dnares/dsx010.

Identification and characterization of a subtelomeric satellite DNA in
Callitrichini monkeys.

Araújo NP(1), de Lima LG(1), Dias GB(1), Kuhn GCS(1), de Melo AL(2),
Yonenaga-Yassuda Y(3), Stanyon R(4), Svartman M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, Laboratório de Citogenômica Evolutiva,
Departamento de Biologia Geral, Instituto de Ciências Biológicas, Avenida
Presidente Antônio Carlos, 6627 - Pampulha, 31270-901, Belo Horizonte, Brazil.
(2)Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, Laboratório de Taxonomia e Biologia de
Invertebrados, Departamento de Parasitologia, Instituto de Ciências Biológicas,
Belo Horizonte, Brazil.
(3)Universidade de São Paulo, Laboratório de Citogenética de Vertebrados,
Departamento de Genética e Biologia Evolutiva, Instituto de Biociências, São
Paulo, Brazil.
(4)University of Florence, Department of Biology, Florence, Italy.

Repetitive DNAs are abundant fast-evolving components of eukaryotic genomes,
which often possess important structural and functional roles. Despite their
ubiquity, repetitive DNAs are poorly studied when compared with the genic
fraction of genomes. Here, we took advantage of the availability of the sequenced
genome of the common marmoset Callithrix jacchus to assess its satellite DNAs
(satDNAs) and their distribution in Callitrichini. After clustering analysis of
all reads and comparisons by similarity, we identified a satDNA composed by
171 bp motifs, named MarmoSAT, which composes 1.09% of the C. jacchus genome.
Fluorescent in situ hybridization on chromosomes of species from the genera
Callithrix, Mico and Callimico showed that MarmoSAT had a subtelomeric location. 
In addition to the common monomeric, we found that MarmoSAT was also organized in
higher-order repeats of 338 bp in Callimico goeldii. Our phylogenetic analyses
showed that MarmoSAT repeats from C. jacchus lack chromosome-specific features,
suggesting exchange events among subterminal regions of non-homologous
chromosomes. MarmoSAT is transcribed in several tissues of C. jacchus, with the
highest transcription levels in spleen, thymus and heart. The transcription
profile and subtelomeric location suggest that MarmoSAT may be involved in the
regulation of telomerase and modulation of telomeric chromatin.

© The Author 2017. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Kazusa DNA
Research Institute.

DOI: 10.1093/dnares/dsx010 
PMCID: PMC5737874
PMID: 28854689  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

