

82. Anat Histol Embryol. 2021 Nov;50(6):888-896. doi: 10.1111/ahe.12732. Epub 2021
Aug 31.

Histometric parameters of the large intestine of hybrid marmosets Callithrix sp. 
under the influence of seasonality.

Guimarães-Lopes VP(1)(2), Gomes MRVS(1), Kagueyama M(1), Faria RCV(1), Ribeiro
Filho OP(1), Melo FR(3), Sartori SSR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Biologia Animal, Universidade Federal de Viçosa, Viçosa,
Brazil.
(2)Departamento de Biologia Geral, Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, Belo
Horizonte, Brazil.
(3)Departamento de Engenharia Florestal, Universidade Federal de Viçosa, Viçosa, 
Brazil.

Morphofunctional characteristics of the large intestine are rarely explored to
understand the physiology, behavior and ecology of neotropical primates. In this 
study, we analyzed the histometric parameters of the large intestine of hybrid
marmosets (Callithrix sp.) captured in forest fragments of Viçosa-Brazil, under
seasonal interference. These animals were predominantly insectivorous in the
rainy season and gummivores in the dry season. Large intestine fragments were
collected and processed according to histological methods and stained with
toluidine blue for general analysis, periodic acid of Schiff (PAS) and Alcian
blue (AB) for goblet cells, Grimelius and Masson Fontana for argyrophil and
argentaffin endocrine cells. Several histometric parameters were more expressive 
in the large intestine of the rainy season marmosets: greater thickness of the
parietal layers, greater number of argyrophil and argentaffin endocrine cells,
and AB-positive goblet cells, characteristics favor secretomotor functions and
reduce the passage time of the fecal bolus, which is consistent with an
insectivorous diet. In contrast, parameters such as crypt width, height of the
absorptive cells and striated border, and the number of PAS-positive cells were
more expressive in the dry season marmosets, reflecting the need for longer
passage time for digestion and absorption of food items from tree gum, which are 
more complex and demand the action of microorganisms present in the large
intestine, as well as greater protection against the abrasive action of dietary
fibers and against microorganisms. Thus, it can be said that the marmoset's large
intestine has morphological adaptations to maximize energy intake from the diet, 
which alternates under the influence of seasonality.

© 2021 Wiley-VCH GmbH.

DOI: 10.1111/ahe.12732 
PMID: 34462952  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

