

828. J Physiol. 2017 Dec 1;595(23):7203-7221. doi: 10.1113/JP274629. Epub 2017 Sep 2.

Cortical control of object-specific grasp relies on adjustments of both activity 
and effective connectivity: a common marmoset study.

Tia B(1)(2), Takemi M(1)(3)(4), Kosugi A(1)(3), Castagnola E(2), Ansaldo A(5),
Nakamura T(1)(3), Ricci D(2), Ushiba J(6)(7), Fadiga L(2), Iriki A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Symbolic Cognitive Development, RIKEN Brain Science Institute, 
Saitama, Japan.
(2)Center for Translational Neurophysiology of Speech and Communication, Istituto
Italiano di Tecnologia, Ferrara, Italy.
(3)Graduate School of Science and Technology, Keio University, Kanagawa, Japan.
(4)Danish Research Centre for Magnetic Resonance, Copenhagen University Hospital 
Hvidovre, Hvidovre, Denmark.
(5)Graphene Labs, Istituto Italiano di Tecnologia, Genoa, Italy.
(6)Department of Biosciences and Informatics, Faculty of Science and Technology, 
Keio University, Kanagawa, Japan.
(7)Keio Institute of Pure and Applied Sciences (KiPAS), Keio University,
Kanagawa, Japan.

Comment in
    J Physiol. 2017 Dec 1;595(23):7013.

KEY POINTS: The cortical mechanisms of grasping have been extensively studied in 
macaques and humans; here, we investigated whether common marmosets could rely on
similar mechanisms despite strong differences in hand morphology and grip
diversity. We recorded electrocorticographic activity over the sensorimotor
cortex of two common marmosets during the execution of different grip types,
which allowed us to study cortical activity (power spectrum) and physiologically 
inferred connectivity (phase-slope index). Analyses were performed in beta
(16-35 Hz) and gamma (75-100 Hz) frequency bands and our results showed that beta
power varied depending on grip type, whereas gamma power displayed clear
epoch-related modulation. Strength and direction of inter-area connectivity
varied depending on grip type and epoch. These findings suggest that fundamental 
control mechanisms are conserved across primates and, in future research,
marmosets could represent an adequate model to investigate primate brain
mechanisms.
ABSTRACT: The cortical mechanisms of grasping have been extensively studied in
macaques and humans. Here, we investigated whether common marmosets could rely on
similar mechanisms despite striking differences in manual dexterity. Two common
marmosets were trained to grasp-and-pull three objects eliciting different hand
configurations: whole-hand, finger and scissor grips. The animals were then
chronically implanted with 64-channel electrocorticogram arrays positioned over
the left premotor, primary motor and somatosensory cortex. Power spectra,
reflecting predominantly cortical activity, and phase-slope index, reflecting the
direction of information flux, were studied in beta (16-35 Hz) and gamma
(75-100 Hz) bands. Differences related to grip type, epoch (reach, grasp) and
cortical area were statistically assessed. Results showed that whole-hand and
scissor grips triggered stronger beta desynchronization than finger grip. Task
epochs clearly modulated gamma power, especially for finger and scissor grips.
Considering effective connectivity, finger and scissor grips evoked stronger
outflow from primary motor to premotor cortex, whereas whole-hand grip displayed 
the opposite pattern. These findings suggest that fundamental control mechanisms,
relying on adjustments of cortical activity and connectivity, are conserved
across primates. Consistently, marmosets could represent a good model to
investigate primate brain mechanisms.

© 2017 The Authors. The Journal of Physiology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd 
on behalf of The Physiological Society.

DOI: 10.1113/JP274629 
PMCID: PMC5709338
PMID: 28791721  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

