

832. Biol Psychiatry. 2017 Dec 15;82(12):895-903. doi: 10.1016/j.biopsych.2017.06.016.
Epub 2017 Jun 23.

Converging Prefronto-Insula-Amygdala Pathways in Negative Emotion Regulation
in Marmoset Monkeys.

Shiba Y(1), Oikonomidis L(1), Sawiak S(2), Fryer TD(3), Hong YT(3), Cockcroft
G(1), Santangelo AM(1), Roberts AC(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Development and Neuroscience, Wolfson Brain Imaging 
Centre, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, United Kingdom; Behavioural and
Clinical Neuroscience Institute, Wolfson Brain Imaging Centre, University of
Cambridge, Cambridge, United Kingdom.
(2)Department of Psychology, Wolfson Brain Imaging Centre, University of
Cambridge, Cambridge, United Kingdom; Behavioural and Clinical Neuroscience
Institute, Wolfson Brain Imaging Centre, University of Cambridge, Cambridge,
United Kingdom.
(3)Department of Clinical Neurosciences, Wolfson Brain Imaging Centre, University
of Cambridge, Cambridge, United Kingdom.
(4)Department of Physiology, Development and Neuroscience, Wolfson Brain Imaging 
Centre, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, United Kingdom; Behavioural and
Clinical Neuroscience Institute, Wolfson Brain Imaging Centre, University of
Cambridge, Cambridge, United Kingdom. Electronic address: acr4@cam.ac.uk.

BACKGROUND: Impaired regulation of emotional responses to potential threat is a
core feature of affective disorders. However, while the subcortical circuitry
responsible for processing and expression of fear has been well characterized,
the top-down control of this circuitry is less well understood. Our recent
studies demonstrated that heightened emotionality, as measured both
physiologically and behaviorally, during conditioned fear and innate/social
threat was induced, independently, by excitotoxic lesions of either the anterior 
orbitofrontal cortex (antOFC) or ventrolateral prefrontal cortex (vlPFC). An
important outstanding question is whether the antOFC and vlPFC act on common or
distinct downstream targets to regulate negative emotion.
METHODS: The question was addressed by combining localized excitotoxic lesions in
the PFC of a nonhuman primate and functional neuroimaging
([18F]fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography) with a fear-regulating
extinction paradigm. Marmoset monkeys with unilateral lesions of either the
antOFC or vlPFC were scanned immediately following exposure to a fearful or safe 
context, and differences in [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose uptake were evaluated.
RESULTS: [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose uptake in the insula and amygdala of the intact 
hemisphere was significantly increased in response to the fearful context
compared with the safe context. Such discrimination between the two contexts was 
not reflected in the activity of the insula-amygdala of the antOFC or
vlPFC-lesioned hemisphere. Instead, uptake was at an intermediate level in both
contexts.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings demonstrate that the distinct control functions of
the antOFC and vlPFC converge on the same downstream targets to promote emotion
regulation, taking us closer to a mechanistic understanding of different forms of
anxiety.

Copyright © 2017 Society of Biological Psychiatry. Published by Elsevier Inc. All
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopsych.2017.06.016 
PMCID: PMC5697497
PMID: 28756869  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

