

835. PLoS One. 2017 Jul 24;12(7):e0180733. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0180733.
eCollection 2017.

Magnetic resonance imaging and tensor-based morphometry in the MPTP non-human
primate model of Parkinson's disease.

Modo M(1)(2)(3)(4)(5), Crum WR(6), Gerwig M(7), Vernon AC(5)(8), Patel P(5),
Jackson MJ(9), Rose S(9), Jenner P(9), Iravani MM(9)(10).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiology, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania,
United States of America.
(2)Department of Bioengineering, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania, United States of America.
(3)McGowan Institute for Regenerative Medicine, University of Pittsburgh,
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, United States of America.
(4)Centre for the Neural Basis of Behavior, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania, United States of America.
(5)Department of Basic and Clinical Neuroscience, King's College London, London, 
United Kingdom.
(6)Department of Neuroimaging, King's College London, London, United Kingdom.
(7)Department of Neuroscience, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania, United States of America.
(8)MRC Centre for Neurodevelopmental Disorders, King's College London, London,
United Kingdom.
(9)Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences, King's College London, London, United
Kingdom.
(10)Department of Pharmacy, Pharmacology & Postgraduate Medicine, University of
Hertfordshire, Hatfield, United Kingdom.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is the second most common neurodegenerative disorder
producing a variety of motor and cognitive deficits with the causes remaining
largely unknown. The gradual loss of the nigrostriatal pathway is currently
considered the pivotal pathological event. To better understand the progression
of PD and improve treatment management, defining the disease on a structural
basis and expanding brain analysis to extra-nigral structures is indispensable.
The anatomical complexity and the presence of neuromelanin, make the use of
non-human primates an essential element in developing putative imaging biomarkers
of PD. To this end, ex vivo T2-weighted magnetic resonance images were acquired
from control and 1-methyl-4 phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated
marmosets. Volume measurements of the caudate, putamen, and substantia nigra
indicated significant atrophy and cortical thinning. Tensor-based morphometry
provided a more extensive and hypothesis free assessment of widespread changes
caused by the toxin insult to the brain, especially highlighting regional
cortical atrophy. The results highlight the importance of developing imaging
biomarkers of PD in non-human primate models considering their distinct
neuroanatomy. It is essential to further develop these biomarkers in vivo to
provide non-invasive tools to detect pre-symptomatic PD and to monitor potential 
disease altering therapeutics.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0180733 
PMCID: PMC5524324
PMID: 28738061  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

