

849. Comp Med. 2017 Jun 1;67(3):253-262.

Animal Models of Ebolavirus Infection.

St Claire MC(1), Ragland DR(2), Bollinger L(2), Jahrling PB(3).

Author information: 
(1)Integrated Research Facility, Division of Clinical Research, National
Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, National Institutes of Health,
Frederick, Maryland;, Email: stclairem@niaid.nih.gov.
(2)Integrated Research Facility, Division of Clinical Research, National
Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, National Institutes of Health,
Frederick, Maryland.
(3)Integrated Research Facility, Division of Clinical Research, Emerging Viral
Pathogens Section, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases,
National Institutes of Health, Frederick, Maryland.

Ebola virus is a highly pathogenic member of the family Filoviridae that causes a
severe hemorrhagic disease in humans and NHP. The 2013-2016 West African outbreak
has increased interest in the development and refinement of animal models of
Ebola virus disease. These models are used to test countermeasures and vaccines, 
gain scientific insights into the mechanisms of disease progression and
transmission, and study key correlates of immunology. Ebola virus is classified
as a BSL4 pathogen and Category A agent, for which the United States government
requires preparedness in case of bioterrorism. Rodents, such as Syrian golden
hamsters (Mesocricetus auratus), mice (Mus musculus), and guinea pigs (Cavia
porcellus), are the most common research species. However, NHP, especially
macaques, are favored for Ebola virus disease research due to similarities with
humans regarding the pathogenesis, clinical presentation, laboratory findings,
and causes of fatality. To satisfy the regulatory requirements for approval of
countermeasures against high-consequence pathogens, the FDA instituted the Animal
Rule, which permits efficacy studies in animal models in place of human clinical 
data when such studies are not feasible or ethical. This review provides a
comprehensive summary of various animal models and their use in Ebola virus
disease research.


PMCID: PMC5482517
PMID: 28662754  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

