

856. Am J Primatol. 2017 Sep;79(9). doi: 10.1002/ajp.22682. Epub 2017 Jun 20.

The effect of infant vocalization in alloparental responsiveness of common
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Barbosa MN(1), Mota MTDS(1), Barbosa MN(2).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Fisiologia, Centro de Biociências, UFRN, Caixa Postal 1511,
Campus Universitário, Natal-RN, Brazil.
(2)Instituto de química, UFRN, Natal-RN, Brazil.

Among mammals, alloparental care can be influenced by hormones as well as by
previous experience and sensory stimuli from the infants, such as sight and
sound, smell, and physical contact with the infant. To determine the
responsiveness of common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) nonreproductive females
and males with and without previous experience in caretaking to infant sensory
cues, we exposed 12 females and 12 males to vocalization recordings for 10 min
under two conditions: (1) exposure to adult conspecific vocalization recordings, 
and (2) exposure to infant vocalization recordings. We recorded the frequency of 
approach toward the sound source, the time spent near it and locomotion frequency
of males and females in the cage under both conditions. Blood samples were
collected after each test for cortisol measuring by EIA method. The infant
vocalization affects the behavioral and hormonal responses of males and females
of common marmosets. The animals approached and spent more time near the sound
source and showed an increase in locomotion during infant vocalization exposure
compared to the adult vocalization. However, there was no significant difference 
in the behavioral response of animals when previous experience and the sex were
taken into account. In both sexes, cortisol levels were significantly higher
following infant vocalization exposure compared to the adult vocalization. These 
findings suggest that the infant vocalization appears to be an effective cue that
facilitates the approach of the caregiver and maintaining their responsiveness
and that the cortisol seems to be important for alertness to sensory stimuli,
modulating their motivation to interact with the infant.

© 2017 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22682 
PMID: 28631840  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

