

865. J Neurosci Methods. 2017 Jul 15;286:102-113. doi: 10.1016/j.jneumeth.2017.04.016.
Epub 2017 May 31.

3D reconstruction of brain section images for creating axonal projection maps in 
marmosets.

Abe H(1), Tani T(2), Mashiko H(2), Kitamura N(2), Miyakawa N(3), Mimura K(3),
Sakai K(3), Suzuki W(3), Kurotani T(2), Mizukami H(4), Watakabe A(5), Yamamori
T(5), Ichinohe N(6).

Author information: 
(1)Ichinohe Group, Laboratory for Molecular Analysis of Higher Brain Function,
RIKEN Brain Science Institute, Saitama, Japan. Electronic address:
hiroshi.abe@riken.jp.
(2)Ichinohe Group, Laboratory for Molecular Analysis of Higher Brain Function,
RIKEN Brain Science Institute, Saitama, Japan.
(3)Department of Ultrastructural Research, National Institute of Neuroscience,
National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, Tokyo, Japan.
(4)Division of Genetic Therapeutics, Center for Molecular Medicine, Jichi Medical
University, Tochigi, Japan.
(5)Laboratory for Molecular Analysis of Higher Brain Function, RIKEN Brain
Science Institute, Saitama, Japan.
(6)Ichinohe Group, Laboratory for Molecular Analysis of Higher Brain Function,
RIKEN Brain Science Institute, Saitama, Japan; Department of Ultrastructural
Research, National Institute of Neuroscience, National Center of Neurology and
Psychiatry, Tokyo, Japan.

BACKGROUND: The brain of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is becoming a
popular non-human primate model in neuroscience research. Because its brain fiber
connectivity is still poorly understood, it is necessary to collect and present
connection and trajectory data using tracers to establish a marmoset brain
connectivity database.
NEW METHOD: To visualize projections and trajectories of axons, brain section
images were reconstructed in 3D by registering them to the corresponding
block-face brain images taken during brain sectioning. During preprocessing,
autofluorescence of the tissue was reduced by applying independent component
analysis to a set of fluorescent images taken using different filters.
RESULTS: The method was applied to a marmoset dataset after a tracer had been
injected into an auditory belt area to fluorescently label axonal projections.
Cortical and subcortical connections were clearly reconstructed in 3D. The
registration error was estimated to be smaller than 200 μm. Evaluation tests on
ICA-based autofluorescence reduction showed a significant improvement in signal
and background separation.
COMPARISON WITH EXISTING METHODS: Regarding the 3D reconstruction error, the
present study shows an accuracy comparable to previous studies using MRI and
block-face images. Compared to serial section two-photon tomography, an advantage
of the proposed method is that it can be combined with standard histological
techniques. The images of differently processed brain sections can be integrated 
into the original ex vivo brain shape.
CONCLUSIONS: The proposed method allows creating 3D axonal projection maps
overlaid with brain area annotations based on the histological staining results
of the same animal.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jneumeth.2017.04.016 
PMID: 28577985  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

