

888. Antiviral Res. 2017 Jul;143:30-37. doi: 10.1016/j.antiviral.2017.03.025. Epub
2017 Apr 5.

Efficacy of antibody-based therapies against Middle East respiratory syndrome
coronavirus (MERS-CoV) in common marmosets.

van Doremalen N(1), Falzarano D(2), Ying T(3), de Wit E(2), Bushmaker T(1),
Feldmann F(4), Okumura A(5), Wang Y(3), Scott DP(4), Hanley PW(4), Feldmann H(2),
Dimitrov DS(3), Munster VJ(6).

Author information: 
(1)Virus Ecology Unit, Laboratory of Virology, Division of Intramural Research,
National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, National Institutes of
Health, Rocky Mountain Laboratories, Hamilton, MT, USA.
(2)Disease Modeling and Transmission, Laboratory of Virology, Division of
Intramural Research, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases,
National Institutes of Health, Rocky Mountain Laboratories, Hamilton, MT, USA.
(3)Protein Interactions Section, Cancer and Inflammation Program, Center for
Cancer Research, National Cancer Institute, National Institutes of Health,
Frederick, MD, USA.
(4)Rocky Mountain Veterinary Branch, Division of Intramural Research, National
Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, National Institutes of Health,
Rocky Mountain Laboratories, Hamilton, MT, USA.
(5)Disease Modeling and Transmission, Laboratory of Virology, Division of
Intramural Research, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases,
National Institutes of Health, Rocky Mountain Laboratories, Hamilton, MT, USA;
Department of Microbiology, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.
(6)Virus Ecology Unit, Laboratory of Virology, Division of Intramural Research,
National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, National Institutes of
Health, Rocky Mountain Laboratories, Hamilton, MT, USA. Electronic address:
munstervj@niaid.nih.gov.

Cases of Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV) continue to be
identified and with a lack of effective clinical treatment and no preventative
strategies, treatment using convalescent plasma or monoclonal antibodies (mAbs)
is a potential quick route to an intervention. Passive immunotherapy via either
convalescent plasma or mAbs has proven to be effective for other infectious
agents. Following infection with MERS-CoV, common marmosets were treated with
high titer hyperimmune plasma or the mAb m336, at 6 and 48 h post inoculation.
Both treatments reduced signs of clinical disease, but reduction in viral loads
in the respiratory tract were only found in the hyperimmune plasma group. A
decrease in gross pathology was found only in the mAb-treated group, but no
histological differences were observed between treated and control animals. While
both hyperimmune plasma and the m336 treatments reduced the severity of disease
in the common marmoset, neither treatment resulted in full protection against
disease.

Copyright © 2017. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.antiviral.2017.03.025 
PMCID: PMC6957253
PMID: 28389142  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

