

9. Neuroimage. 2022 Feb 22;252:119030. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2022.119030. [Epub 
ahead of print]

An open access resource for functional brain connectivity from fully awake
marmosets.

Schaeffer DJ(1), Klassen LM(2), Hori Y(2), Tian X(3), Szczupak D(3), Yen CC(4),
Cléry JC(2), Gilbert KM(2), Gati JS(2), Menon RS(5), Liu C(6), Everling S(5),
Silva AC(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA 15261,
United States. Electronic address: dschaeff@pitt.edu.
(2)Centre for Functional and Metabolic Mapping, Robarts Research Institute,
University of Western Ontario, London, ON, Canada.
(3)Department of Neurobiology, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA 15261,
United States.
(4)National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National Institutes
of Health, Bethesda, MD, United States.
(5)Centre for Functional and Metabolic Mapping, Robarts Research Institute,
University of Western Ontario, London, ON, Canada; Department of Physiology and
Pharmacology, University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, Canada.
(6)Institute of Neuroscience, Center for Excellence in Brain Science and
Intelligence Technology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shanghai 200031, China.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is quickly gaining traction as a premier
neuroscientific model. However, considerable progress is still needed in
understanding the functional and structural organization of the marmoset brain to
rival that documented in longstanding preclinical model species, like mice, rats,
and Old World primates. To accelerate such progress, we present the Marmoset
Functional Brain Connectivity Resource (marmosetbrainconnectome.org), currently
consisting of over 70 h of resting-state fMRI (RS-fMRI) data acquired at 500 µm
isotropic resolution from 31 fully awake marmosets in a common stereotactic
space. Three-dimensional functional connectivity (FC) maps for every cortical and
subcortical gray matter voxel are stored online. Users can instantaneously view, 
manipulate, and download any whole-brain functional connectivity (FC) topology
(at the subject- or group-level) along with the raw datasets and preprocessing
code. Importantly, researchers can use this resource to test hypotheses about FC 
directly - with no additional analyses required - yielding whole-brain
correlations for any gray matter voxel on demand. We demonstrate the resource's
utility for presurgical planning and comparison with tracer-based neuronal
connectivity as proof of concept. Complementing existing structural connectivity 
resources for the marmoset brain, the Marmoset Functional Brain Connectivity
Resource affords users the distinct advantage of exploring the connectivity of
any voxel in the marmoset brain, not limited to injection sites nor constrained
by regional atlases. With the entire raw database (RS-fMRI and structural images)
and preprocessing code openly available for download and use, we expect this
resource to be broadly valuable to test novel hypotheses about the functional
organization of the marmoset brain.

Copyright © 2022. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2022.119030 
PMID: 35217206 

