

90. Transbound Emerg Dis. 2021 Nov;68(6):3207-3216. doi: 10.1111/tbed.14287. Epub
2021 Aug 30.

Pathology and One Health implications of fatal Leptospira interrogans infection
in an urbanized, free-ranging, black-tufted marmoset (Callithrix penicillata) in 
Brazil.

Wilson TM(1)(2)(3), Ritter JM(2), Martines RB(2), Gonçalves AAB(1)(3), Fair P(2),
Galloway R(4), Weiner Z(4), Romano APM(5), Costa GRT(6), Melo CB(3), Zaki SR(2), 
Castro MB(1)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Veterinary Pathology Laboratory, University of Brasília, Brasília, Brazil.
(2)Infectious Diseases Pathology Branch, Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention, Division of High-Consequence Pathogens and Pathology, Atlanta,
Georgia, USA.
(3)Graduate Program in Animal Science, University of Brasília, Brasilia, Brazil.
(4)Bacterial Special Pathogens Branch, Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention, Division of High-Consequence Pathogens and Pathology, Atlanta,
Georgia, USA.
(5)Technical Group on Arbovirus Surveillance, General Coordination of
Communicable Diseases, Department of Communicable Disease Surveillance,
Secretariat of Health Surveillance, Brazilian Ministry of Health, Brasilia,
Brazil.
(6)Environmental Health Surveillance Directorate of the Federal District,
Brasilia, Brazil.

Leptospirosis is a zoonotic neglected disease of worldwide public health concern.
Leptospira species can infect a wide range of wild and domestic mammals and lead 
to a spectrum of disease, including severe and fatal forms. Herein, we report for
the first time a fatal Leptospira interrogans infection in a free-ranging
nonhuman primate (NHP), a black-tufted marmoset. Icterus, pulmonary haemorrhage, 
interstitial nephritis, and hepatocellular dissociation were the main findings
raising the suspicion of leptospirosis. Diagnostic confirmation was based on
specific immunohistochemical and PCR assays for Leptospira species.
Immunolocalization of leptospiral antigens and identification of pathogenic
species (L. interrogans species) were important for better understanding the
pathogenesis of the disease. One Health-related implications of free-ranging NHPs
in anthropized areas and transmission dynamics of human and animal leptospirosis 
are discussed.

© 2021 Wiley-VCH GmbH. This article has been contributed to by US Government
employees and their work is in the public domain in the USA.

DOI: 10.1111/tbed.14287 
PMID: 34387927  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

