

906. BMC Res Notes. 2017 Mar 9;10(1):121. doi: 10.1186/s13104-017-2447-6.

RNA isolation from precision-cut lung slices (PCLS) from different species.

Niehof M(1), Hildebrandt T(2), Danov O(3), Arndt K(2), Koschmann J(4), Dahlmann
F(3)(5), Hansen T(3), Sewald K(3).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Preclinical Pharmacology and In Vitro Toxicology, Fraunhofer
Institute for Toxicology and Experimental Medicine ITEM, German Center for Lung
Research (DZL), Biomedical Research in Endstage and Obstructive Lung Disease
Hannover (BREATH), Excellence Cluster REBIRTH, Nikolai-Fuchs-Str. 1, 30625,
Hannover, Germany. monika.niehof@item.fraunhofer.de.
(2)Immunology and Respiratory, Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma GmbH & Co. KG,
Ingelheim am Rhein, Germany.
(3)Division of Preclinical Pharmacology and In Vitro Toxicology, Fraunhofer
Institute for Toxicology and Experimental Medicine ITEM, German Center for Lung
Research (DZL), Biomedical Research in Endstage and Obstructive Lung Disease
Hannover (BREATH), Excellence Cluster REBIRTH, Nikolai-Fuchs-Str. 1, 30625,
Hannover, Germany.
(4)geneXplain GmbH, 38302, Wolfenbüttel, Germany.
(5)Pathology Unit, German Primate Center GmbH, Leibniz-Institute for Primate
Research, Kellnerweg 4, 37077, Göttingen, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Functional 3D organ models such as precision-cut lung slices (PCLS)
have recently captured the attention of biomedical research. To enable wider
implementation in research and development, these new biologically relevant organ
models are being constantly refined. A very important issue is to improve the
preparation of high-quality RNA (ribonucleic acid) from PCLS for drug discovery
and development of new therapies. Gene expression analysis at different levels is
used as an important experimental readout. Genome-wide analysis using microarrays
is mostly applied for biomarker selection in disease models or in comprehensive
toxicological studies. Specific biomarker testing by reverse transcriptase
quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RTqPCR) is often used in efficacy
studies. Both applications require high-quality RNA as starting material for the 
generation of reliable data. Additionally, a small number of slices should be
sufficient for satisfactory RNA isolation to allow as many experimental
conditions as possible to be covered with a given tissue sample. Unfortunately,
the vast amount of agarose in PCLS impedes RNA extraction according to the
standard procedures.
RESULTS: We established an optimized protocol for RNA isolation from PCLS from
humans, rats, mice, marmosets, and rhesus macaques based on the separation of
lysis and precipitation steps and a magnetic-bead cleanup procedure. The
resulting RNA is of high purity and possesses a high degree of integrity. There
are no contaminations affecting RTqPCR efficiency or any enzymatic step in sample
preparation for microarray analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: In summary, we isolated RNA from PCLS from different species that is
well suited for RTqPCR and for microarray analysis as downstream applications.

DOI: 10.1186/s13104-017-2447-6 
PMCID: PMC5343379
PMID: 28274266  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

