

918. Malar J. 2017 Feb 10;16(1):71. doi: 10.1186/s12936-017-1724-0.

New potential Plasmodium brasilianum hosts: tamarin and marmoset monkeys (family 
Callitrichidae).

Alvarenga DA(1), Pina-Costa A(2)(3), Bianco C Jr(3)(4), Moreira SB(5), Brasil
P(2)(3), Pissinatti A(5)(6), Daniel-Ribeiro CT(3)(4), Brito CF(7).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Malária, Centro de Pesquisa René Rachou (CPqRR), Fundação
Oswaldo Cruz (Fiocruz), Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil.
(2)Laboratório de Doenças Febris Agudas, Instituto Nacional de Infectologia
(INI), Fiocruz, Rio de Janeiro, RJ, Brazil.
(3)Centro de Pesquisa, Diagnóstico e Treinamento em Malária (CPD-Mal), Fiocruz,
Rio de Janeiro, RJ, Brazil.
(4)Laboratório de Pesquisa em Malária, Instituto Oswaldo Cruz (IOC), Fiocruz, Rio
de Janeiro, RJ, Brazil.
(5)Centro de Primatologia do Rio de Janeiro (CPRJ/INEA), Rio de Janeiro, RJ,
Brazil.
(6)Centro Universitário Serra dos Órgãos (UNIFESO), Rio de Janeiro, RJ, Brazil.
(7)Laboratório de Malária, Centro de Pesquisa René Rachou (CPqRR), Fundação
Oswaldo Cruz (Fiocruz), Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil. cristiana@cpqrr.fiocruz.br.

BACKGROUND: Non-human primates (NHPs) as a source for Plasmodium infections in
humans are a challenge for malaria elimination. In Brazil, two species of
Plasmodium have been described infecting NHPs, Plasmodium brasilianum and
Plasmodium simium. Both species are infective to man. Plasmodium brasilianum
resembles morphologically, genetically and immunologically the human quartan
Plasmodium malariae. Plasmodium brasilianum naturally infects species of
non-human primates from all New World monkey families from a large geographic
area. In the family Callitrichidae only the genus Saguinus has been described
infected so far. The present study describes the natural infection of P.
brasilianum in tamarins and marmosets of the genera Callithrix, Mico and
Leontopithecus in the Atlantic forest.
METHODS: One hundred and twenty-two NHPs of the family Callitrichidae housed in
the Primate Centre of Rio de Janeiro (CPRJ) were sampled in June 2015, and
January and July 2016. The CPRJ is located in the Atlantic forest in the
Guapimirim municipality, in the Rio de Janeiro state, where human autochthonous
cases of malaria have been reported. The samples were screened for the presence
of Plasmodium using optical microscopy and nested PCR for detection of 18S small 
subunit rRNA gene. The amplicon was sequenced to confirm the molecular diagnosis.
RESULTS: The frequency of Plasmodium infections detected by nested PCR in New
World monkeys of the family Callitrichidae was 6.6%. For the first time,
Callitrichidae primates of genera Callithrix, Mico and Leontopithecus were found 
naturally infected with P. brasilianum. Infection was confirmed by sequencing a
small fragment of 18S rRNA gene, although no parasites were detected in blood
smears.
CONCLUSIONS: The reported P. brasilianum infection in NHP species maintained in
captivity suggests that infection can be favoured by the presence of vectors and 
the proximity between known (and unknown) hosts of malaria. Thus, the list of
potential malaria reservoirs needs to be further explored.

DOI: 10.1186/s12936-017-1724-0 
PMCID: PMC5303265
PMID: 28187764  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

