

93. PLoS One. 2021 Aug 9;16(8):e0238663. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0238663.
eCollection 2021.

Personality, subjective well-being, and the serotonin 1a receptor gene in common 
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Weiss A(1)(2), Yokoyama C(3), Hayashi T(3), Inoue-Murayama M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Wildlife Research Center, Kyoto University, Kyoto, Japan.
(2)Department of Psychology, School of Philosophy, Psychology and Language
Sciences, The University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, United Kingdom.
(3)Laboratory for Brain Connectomics Imaging, RIKEN Center for Biosystems
Dynamics Research, Kobe, Japan.

Studies of personality traits in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) indicate
that there are five or six constructs-Sociability, Dominance, Neuroticism,
Openness, and two related to Conscientiousness. The present study attempted to
determine whether our earlier study of laboratory-housed individuals only yielded
three-Dominance, Sociability, and Neuroticism-because of a low amount of
between-subjects variance. To do so, we increased our sample size from 77 to 128.
In addition, we ascertained the reliability and validity of ratings and whether
polymorphisms related to the serotonin 1a receptor were associated with
personality. We found Sociability, Dominance, and Negative Affect factors that
resembled three domains found in previous studies, including ours. We also found 
an Openness and Impulsiveness factor, the latter of which bore some resemblance
to Conscientiousness, and two higher-order factors, Pro-sociality and Boldness.
In further analyses, we could not exclude the possibility that Pro-sociality and 
Boldness represented a higher-level of personality organization. Correlations
between personality factors and well-being were consistent with the definitions
of the factors. There were no significant associations between personality and
genotype. These results suggest that common marmoset personality structure varies
as a function of rearing or housing variables that have not yet been investigated
systematically.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0238663 
PMCID: PMC8351977
PMID: 34370743  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.

