

959. Am J Primatol. 2017 Mar;79(3):1-9. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22615. Epub 2016 Nov 3.

Feeding habits of marmosets: A case study of bark anatomy and chemical
composition of Anadenanthera peregrina gum.

Francisco TM(1)(2), Lopes-Mattos KL(3), Picoli EA(3), Couto DR(4), Oliveira
JA(5), Zanuncio JC(6), Serrão JE(5), de Oliveira Silva I(1), Boere V(1).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Biologia Animal, Universidade Federal de Viçosa, Viçosa,
Brasil.
(2)Laboratório de Ciências Ambientais, Universidade Estadual do Norte Fluminense 
- Darcy Ribeiro, Campos dos Goytacazes, Brasil.
(3)Departamento de Biologia Vegetal, Universidade Federal de Viçosa, Viçosa,
Brasil.
(4)Museu Nacional do Rio de Janeiro, Departamento de Botânica, Universidade
Federal do Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, Brasil.
(5)Departamento de Biologia Geral, Universidade Federal de Viçosa, Viçosa,
Brasil.
(6)Departamento de Entomologia/BIOAGRO, Universidade Federal de Viçosa, Viçosa,
Brasil.

Primates of the genus Callithrix often obtain exudates from plants of the family 
Fabaceae. This study characterizes the chemical composition of exudates, and the 
anatomy and hystochemistry of the secretory ducts in the bark of Anadenanthera
peregrina (L.) Speg. var. peregrina (Fabaceae). Exudates from this tree species
represent an important component of the diet of hybrid marmosets, Callithrix spp.
(Primates: Cebidae). A. peregrina was selected as the focal study tree because it
is the only gum tree species exploited by Callithrix groups present within five
urban forest fragments in the municipality of Viçosa, Minas Gerais State, Brazil.
Gum samples were obtained directly from gouges made by the marmosets, while bark 
samples were obtained from A. peregrina plants, whether or not they were damaged 
by the marmosets. Constitutive secretory ducts were present in the bark of
ungouged A. peregrina, whereas, marmoset damage caused induced secretory duct
formation and an increase in the size of these ducts. The gum produced in the
gouges made by the marmosets and in ungouged plants reacted positively to tests
for polysaccharides, pectin, mucilage, and proteins. The gum from the gouges
exhibited high water (41.0%), carbohydrate (38.2%), protein (19.0%), and mineral 
(Ca 0.4% and K 0.3%) content. We argue that the relatively high calcium content
of A. peregrina gum plays an important nutritional role in, balancing a diet that
is otherwise rich in phosphorous and poor in calcium.

© 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22615 
PMID: 27813145  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

