

967. Gut. 2018 Feb;67(2):372-379. doi: 10.1136/gutjnl-2016-312208. Epub 2016 Oct 26.

Induction of humoural and cellular immunity by immunisation with HCV particle
vaccine in a non-human primate model.

Yokokawa H(1)(2), Higashino A(3)(4), Suzuki S(3)(4), Moriyama M(1), Nakamura
N(1), Suzuki T(1), Suzuki R(2), Ishii K(2), Kobiyama K(5)(6), Ishii KJ(5)(6),
Wakita T(2), Akari H(3)(4), Kato T(2).

Author information: 
(1)Pharmaceutical Research Laboratories, Toray Industries, Inc, Kanagawa, Japan.
(2)Department of Virology II, National Institute of Infectious Diseases, Tokyo,
Japan.
(3)Center for Human Evolution Modeling Research, Primate Research Institute,
Kyoto University, Inuyama, Japan.
(4)Laboratory of Infectious Disease Model, Institute for Frontier Life and
Medical Sciences, Kyoto University, Kyoto, Japan.
(5)Laboratory of Adjuvant Innovation, National Institutes of Biomedical
Innovation, Health and Nutrition, Osaka, Japan.
(6)Laboratory of Vaccine Science, World Premier International Research Center,
Immunology Frontier Research Center, Osaka University, Osaka, Japan.

OBJECTIVE: Although HCV is a major cause of chronic liver disease worldwide,
there is currently no prophylactic vaccine for this virus. Thus, the development 
of an HCV vaccine that can induce both humoural and cellular immunity is urgently
needed. To create an effective HCV vaccine, we evaluated neutralising antibody
induction and cellular immune responses following the immunisation of a non-human
primate model with cell culture-generated HCV (HCVcc).
DESIGN: To accomplish this, 10 common marmosets were immunised with purified,
inactivated HCVcc in combination with two different adjuvants: the classically
used aluminum hydroxide (Alum) and the recently established adjuvant: CpG
oligodeoxynucleotide (ODN) wrapped by schizophyllan (K3-SPG).
RESULTS: The coadministration of HCVcc with K3-SPG efficiently induced immune
responses against HCV, as demonstrated by the production of antibodies with
specific neutralising activity against chimaeric HCVcc with structural proteins
from multiple HCV genotypes (1a, 1b, 2a and 3a). The induction of cellular
immunity was also demonstrated by the production of interferon-γ mRNA in spleen
cells following stimulation with the HCV core protein. These changes were not
observed following immunisation with HCVcc/Alum preparation. No
vaccination-related abnormalities were detected in any of the immunised animals.
CONCLUSIONS: The current preclinical study demonstrated that a vaccine included
both HCVcc and K3-SPG induced humoural and cellular immunity in marmosets.
Vaccination with this combination resulted in the production of antibodies
exhibiting cross-neutralising activity against multiple HCV genotypes. Based on
these findings, the vaccine created in this study represents a promising, potent 
and safe prophylactic option against HCV.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not
already granted under a licence) please go to
http://www.bmj.com/company/products-services/rights-and-licensing/.

DOI: 10.1136/gutjnl-2016-312208 
PMID: 27797937  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: HY, MM, NN and TS are
employee of Toray Industries.

