

977. Neuroscience. 2016 Nov 19;337:1-8. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2016.08.056. Epub 
2016 Sep 9.

The middle-aged ovariectomized marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) as a model of
menopausal symptoms: Preliminary evidence.

Gervais NJ(1), Viechweg SS(2), Mong JA(2), Lacreuse A(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences, University of Massachusetts,
Amherst, MA, USA. Electronic address: ngervais@cns.umass.edu.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, University of Maryland School of Medicine,
Baltimore, MD, USA.
(3)Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences, University of Massachusetts,
Amherst, MA, USA.

Menopausal women often suffer from hot flashes and sleep disturbances that
significantly impact their quality of life. Both human and animal studies suggest
that loss of estrogens during menopause contribute to these symptoms. In the
female rat, both core body temperature (CBT) and sleep are sensitive to
17β-estradiol (E2) levels, but important differences between the rat and the
human patterns limit the interpretation of the results. The sleep and
thermoregulation of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) more closely
resemble human patterns. However, no study to date has examined whether E2
influences sleep and thermoregulation in this species. The main goal of the
present study was to investigate the suitability of the ovariectomized (OVX)
marmoset for studying two major menopausal symptoms experienced by women, sleep
disturbance and thermodysregulation. Two middle-aged OVX marmosets (6years old)
were implanted with a telemeter that records electroencephalograms (EEG),
electromyograms (EMG), and CBT. Sleep patterns and CBT were recorded under
baseline, two E2 replacement (6 and 12μg/kg/day, p.o.) conditions and two E2
withdrawal conditions. Relative to both baseline and withdrawal, high E2
replacement was associated with lower nighttime CBT. In addition, fewer nighttime
arousals were observed under low E2 replacement compared to baseline. Higher
delta power was observed under both E2 replacement conditions suggesting enhanced
sleep quality. These preliminary results suggest that E2 modulates sleep and
thermoregulation in the OVX marmoset, making it a promising model for studying
menopausal symptoms.

Copyright © 2016 IBRO. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2016.08.056 
PMID: 27619737  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

