

996. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2016 Sep 1;57(11):4536-52. doi: 10.1167/iovs.16-19286.

Is Angiostatin Involved in Physiological Foveal Avascularity?

Böhm MR(1)(2), Hodes F(2), Brockhaus K(2), Hummel S(2), Schlatt S(3), Melkonyan
H(2), Thanos S(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology Clinic for Diseases of the Anterior Segments of
the Eyes, Essen University Hospital, Essen, Germany
(2)Institute of Experimental Ophthalmology, School of Medicine, Westfalian
Wilhelms-University of Münster, Münster, Germany
(3)Centre for Reproductive Medicine and Andrology, Westfalian Wilhelms-University
of Münster, Münster, Germany

Purpose: The primate central retina is characterized by an avascular fovea and
well-defined perifoveal capillary plexus. Neither blood vessels nor their
accompanying astrocytes enter the fovea during any stage of retinal development; 
a balance of angiogenic and angiostatic factors probably maintains foveal
avascularity throughout life. The aim of this study was to identify potentially
angiorepulsive factors involved in the development of the avascular primate
retinal fovea.
Methods: Retinas of newborn, juvenile, and adult Callithrix jacchus and Macaca
fascicularis monkeys and control human retinas were studied to determine the
localization of angiostatin relative to III β-tubulin, glial fibrillary acidic
protein, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), platelet endothelial cell
adhesion molecule-1 (PECAM), and the angiostatin receptor αvβ3-integrin in the
foveal, macular, and peripheral retina. Expression studies were performed using
immunohistochemistry (IHC) on retinal whole-mount and paraffin sections, and
Western blotting on frozen material. The complex network of the main retinal cell
types was identified by IHC of retinal whole mounts.
Results: In general, lifetime expression of angiostatin was found in all retinas.
Colabeling with different markers revealed retinal ganglion cells as the main
source of angiostatin expression in the primate retina, whereas
PECAM-immunopositive blood capillaries expressed the angiostatin receptor
αvβ3-integrin, and capillary-associated astrocytes expressed VEGF.
Conclusions: This study provides the first evidence of angiostatin expression in 
the primate retina; the expression of angiostatin in the avascular foveal region 
and the peripheral retina suggests that angiostatin may play a role in the
regulation of retinal vascularization, providing a possible explanation for the
development and persistence of an avascular fovea.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.16-19286 
PMID: 27583825  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

